scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.adoc, before:

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="recommended-host-practices"]
= Recommended host practices
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: recommended-host-practices

toc::[]

This topic provides recommended host practices for {product-title}.

[IMPORTANT]
====
These guidelines apply to {product-title} with software-defined networking (SDN), not Open Virtual Network (OVN).
====

include::modules/recommended-node-host-practices.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/create-a-kubeletconfig-crd-to-edit-kubelet-parameters.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/modify-unavailable-workers.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/master-node-sizing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/increasing-aws-flavor-size.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../backup_and_restore/control_plane_backup_and_restore/backing-up-etcd.adoc#backing-up-etcd[Backing up etcd]

include::modules/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/4885641[How to use `fio` to check etcd disk performance in {product-title}] 

include::modules/etcd-defrag.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-components.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For information on infrastructure nodes and which components can run on infrastructure nodes, see the "Red Hat OpenShift control plane and infrastructure nodes" section in the link:https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/openshift-subscription-sizing-guide[OpenShift sizing and subscription guide for enterprise Kubernetes] document.

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-monitoring.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-registry.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-router.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-node-sizing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../scalability_and_performance/planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums.adoc#planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums[{product-title}
cluster maximums]
* xref:../machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc#creating-infrastructure-machinesets[Creating infrastructure machine sets]

Commit message:

[OSDOCS-4623]: Sweeping for CPMS changes in repo

scalability_and_performance/recommended-host-practices.adoc, after:

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="recommended-host-practices"]
= Recommended host practices
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: recommended-host-practices

toc::[]

This topic provides recommended host practices for {product-title}.

[IMPORTANT]
====
These guidelines apply to {product-title} with software-defined networking (SDN), not Open Virtual Network (OVN).
====

include::modules/recommended-node-host-practices.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/create-a-kubeletconfig-crd-to-edit-kubelet-parameters.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/modify-unavailable-workers.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/master-node-sizing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="increasing-aws-flavor-size_{context}"]
=== Selecting a larger Amazon Web Services instance type for control plane machines

If the control plane machines in an Amazon Web Services (AWS) cluster require more resources, you can select a larger AWS instance type for the control plane machines to use.

[NOTE]
====
The procedure for clusters that use a control plane machine set is different than the procedure for clusters that do not use a control plane machine set. 

If you are uncertain about the state of the `ControlPlaneMachineSet` CR in your cluster, you can xref:../machine_management/control_plane_machine_management/cpmso-getting-started.adoc#cpmso-checking-status_cpmso-getting-started[verify the CR status].
====

//Changing the Amazon Web Services instance type by using a control plane machine set
include::modules/cpms-changing-aws-instance-type.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../machine_management/control_plane_machine_management/cpmso-using.adoc#cpmso-using[Managing control plane machines with the Control Plane Machine Set Operator]

//Changing the Amazon Web Services instance type by using the AWS console
include::modules/aws-console-changing-aws-instance-type.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../backup_and_restore/control_plane_backup_and_restore/backing-up-etcd.adoc#backing-up-etcd[Backing up etcd]
* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-resize.html[AWS documentation about changing the instance type]

include::modules/recommended-etcd-practices.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/4885641[How to use `fio` to check etcd disk performance in {product-title}] 

include::modules/etcd-defrag.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-components.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For information on infrastructure nodes and which components can run on infrastructure nodes, see the "Red Hat OpenShift control plane and infrastructure nodes" section in the link:https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/openshift-subscription-sizing-guide[OpenShift sizing and subscription guide for enterprise Kubernetes] document.

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-monitoring.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-registry.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-router.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/infrastructure-node-sizing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../scalability_and_performance/planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums.adoc#planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums[{product-title}
cluster maximums]
* xref:../machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc#creating-infrastructure-machinesets[Creating infrastructure machine sets]
