[[architecture-additional-concepts-ephemeral-storage]]
= Ephemeral Local Storage
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:

toc::[]

*Note: this only applies if the ephemeral-storage tech preview in
{product-title} 3.10 has been enabled.  This is disabled by default;
to enable this features, please see
xref:../install_config/configuring_ephemeral.adoc[Configuring for
Ephemeral Storage].*

== Overview

In addition to persistent storage, pods and containers may require
ephemeral (transient) local storage for their operation.  The lifetime
of this ephemeral storage does not extend beyond the life of the
individual pod, and this ephemeral storage cannot be shared across
pods.

Prior to {product-title} 3.10, ephemeral local storage was exposed to
pods via the container’s writable layer, logs directory, and EmptyDir
volumes.  Pods use ephemeral local storage for scratch space, caching
and logs.  There are many issues related to the lack of local storage
accounting and isolation, including:

- Pods do not know how much local storage is available to them.

- Pods cannot request "guaranteed" local storage.

- Local storage is a "best effort" resource.

- Pods can get evicted due to other pods filling up the local storage,
after which no new pods will be admitted until sufficient storage
has been reclaimed.

Unlike persistent volumes, ephemeral storage is unstructured and
shared (the space, not the actual data) between all pods running on a
node, in addition to other uses by the system, the container runtime,
and {product-title}.  The ephemeral storage framework allows pods to
specify their transitory local storage needs, and {product-title} to
schedule pods where appropriate and protect the node against excessive
use of local storage.

While the ephemeral storage framework allows administrators and
developers to better manage this local storage, it does not provide
any promises related to I/O throughput and latency.

== Types of Ephemeral Storage

Ephemeral local storage is always made available in the primary
partition.  There are two basic ways of creating the primary
partition.

=== Root

This partition holds the kubelet’s root directory (`/var/lib/origin`
by default) and `/var/log` directory.  This partition may be shared
between user pods, OS and Kubernetes system daemons.  This partition
can be consumed by pods via EmptyDir volumes, container logs, image
layers and container writable layers.  Kubelet will manage shared
access and isolation of this partition.  This partition is "ephemeral"
and applications cannot expect any performance SLAs (Disk IOPS for
example) from this partition.

=== Runtime

This is an optional partition which runtimes can use for overlay
filesystems.  {product-title} will attempt to identify and provide
shared access along with isolation to this partition.  Container image
layers and writable layers are stored here.  If the runtime partition
exists, `root` partition will not hold any image layer or writable

_Note that when using devicemapper to provide runtime storage,
containers' copy-on-write layer is not accounted for in ephemeral
storage management.  Using Overlay storage will allow this use of
ephemeral storage to be monitored.

endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
====
