[[whats-new-applications]]
= Applications
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

*Applications in OpenShift v2*

Applications have always been the focal point within OpenShift. In OpenShift v2,
an application was a single unit - it consisted of one web framework
and no more than one of any given cartridge type. So an application could have
one PHP and one MySQL, for example, but it could not have one Ruby, one PHP, and
two MySQLs. It also could not be a MySQL cartridge by itself.

The limited scoping for applications meant that OpenShift could perform seamless
linking for all components within an application using well-defined environment
variables. Every web framework knew how to connect to MySQL using the
`OPENSHIFT_MYSQL_DB_HOST` and `OPENSHIFT_MYSQL_DB_PORT` variables, for example.
But this linking was limited to within an application and only worked within
cartridges designed to work together. There was nothing to help link across
application components, such as sharing a MySQL instance across two
applications.

*Applications in OpenShift v3*

From OpenShift v2 it was clear that solving the problems of the entire
application is essential. Most other PaaSes limit themselves to web frameworks
and rely on external services for the other types of components. OpenShift v3
takes the next steps by making even more application topologies possible and
making existing topologies more manageable.

The first step necessary to accomplish this is to remove "application" as a
keyword since "application" can mean something different to everyone. Instead,
you can have as many components as you desire, contained by a
xref:../architecture/core_concepts/projects_and_users.adoc#projects[project],
flexibly linked together, and optionally labeled to provide any groupings or
structure. This new model allows for a standalone MySQL instance, or one shared
between JBoss components, or really any combination of components you can
imagine.

Flexible linking means you can link any two arbitrary components together. As
long as one component can export environment variables and the second component
consume values from those environment variables, with potential variable name
transformation, you can link together any two components without having to
change the images they are based on. So the best container-based implementation of
your desired database and web framework can be consumed directly rather than you
having to fork them both and rework them to be compatible.

The result means you can build anything on OpenShift. And that is the problem
OpenShift really aims to solve: a platform built on containers that lets you
build entire applications in a repeatable lifecycle.
