[[whats-new-index]]
= Overview
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:

OpenShift v3 brings many architectural changes and introduces new concepts and
components. It is built around the applications running in Docker
xref:../architecture/core_concepts/containers_and_images.adoc#containers[containers],
scheduling and management support provided by the
http://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes] project, and augmented deployment,
orchestration, and routing functionality on top.

The most significant changes surround the container model and how they are
monitored and interconnected. Kubernetes
xref:../architecture/core_concepts/pods_and_services.adoc#pods[pods] are a group
of containers that act like a single VM: they have a single IP address, they can
share a file system, and they typically have similar security settings. Grouping
containers together vastly increases the number of applications that can be
brought to OpenShift. Rather than focusing on a microservice model to the
exclusion of all other patterns, pods enable developers to port existing
applications that need to share local resources while still benefiting from a
container-based model.

Second, OpenShift containers are expected to be *immutable*: the image contains
a particular snapshot of application code and its dependent libraries, while any
configuration, secrets, or persistent data is attached to the container at
runtime. This allows administrators and integrators to separate code and patches
from configuration and data. While it is still possible to mutate your
containers, the higher level concepts of build and deployments leverage
immutable containers to provide higher level guarantees about what code is
running where.

The third important change is in the core system design: OpenShift and
Kubernetes are built as sets of microservices working together through common
xref:../rest_api/index.adoc#rest-api-index[REST APIs] to change the system. Those same APIs
are available to system integrators, and those same core components can be
disabled to allow alternative implementations. A great example of this are the
*watch* APIs: clients can connect and receive a stream of changes to pods (or
other objects) and take action on them as the pods become available (to signal
errors or log changes to the system). OpenShift exposes fine-grained access
control on the REST APIs to enable this integration, which means there are no
actions in the system that cannot also be done by an integrator.

The following topics provide more information on the new architecture and
concepts to help you understand what is new in OpenShift v3.

[NOTE]
====
In the following sections, "OpenShift v2" and "OpenShift v3" refer to the second
and third architectural revisions of OpenShift, respectively.
====
