= Terminology
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Overview
Because of the architectural changes in OpenShift v3, a number of core terms
used in OpenShift v2 have changed to better reflect the new model. The following
sections highlight some of these important changes. See the
link:../architecture/core_concepts/index.html[Core Concepts] topics for more
detailed information on the concepts and objects in the new model.

*Application*

A specific  _application_ term or concept no longer exists in OpenShift v3. See
the link:applications.html[Applications] topic for a more in-depth look at this
change.

*Cartridge vs Image*

The easiest replacement term for _cartridge_ in OpenShift v3 is
link:../architecture/core_concepts/containers_and_images.html#docker-images[_image_].
An image does more than a cartridge from a packaging perspective, providing
better encapsulation and flexibility. But the cartridge concept also included
logic for building, deploying, and routing which do not exist in images. In
OpenShift v3, these additional needs are met by
link:../architecture/core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.html#source-build[Source-to-Image
(S2I)] and link:../architecture/core_concepts/templates.html[templated
configuration].

See the link:carts_vs_images.html[Cartridges vs Images] topic for more detailed
information on these changes.

*Project vs Domain*

link:../architecture/core_concepts/projects_and_users.html#projects[_Project_] is
essentially a rename of _domain_ from OpenShift v2. Projects do have several
features that are not a part of domains in OpenShift v2.

*Gear vs Container*

The _gear_ and
link:../architecture/core_concepts/containers_and_images.html#containers[_container_]
terms are interchangeable. Containers have a cleaner mapping of being one-to-one
with images, whereas many cartridges could be added to a single gear. With
containers, the collocation concept is satisfied by
link:../architecture/core_concepts/pods_and_services.html#pods[pods].

*Master vs Broker*

link:../architecture/infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.html#master[_Masters_]
in OpenShift v3 do the job of the _broker_ layer in OpenShift v2. However, the
MongoDB and ActiveMQ layers used by the broker in OpenShift v2 are no longer
necessary because the link:../architecture/infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.html#master[key-value store] *etcd* is typically installed with each master.
