[id="route-based-deployment-strategies"]
= Using route-based deployment strategies
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: route-based-deployment-strategies

toc::[]

Deployment strategies provide a way for the application to evolve. Some
strategies use DeploymentConfigs to make changes that are seen by users of all
routes that resolve to the application. Other advanced strategies, such as the
ones described in this section, use router features in conjunction with
DeploymentConfigs to impact specific routes.

////
This link keeps breaking Travis for some reason.

[NOTE]
====
See
xref:../../applications/deployments/deployment-strategies.adoc#deployment-strategies[Using DeploymentConfig strategies]
for more on the basic strategy types.
====
////

The most common route-based strategy is to use a _blue-green deployment_. The
new version (the blue version) is brought up for testing and evaluation, while
the users still use the stable version (the green version). When ready, the
users are switched to the blue version. If a problem arises, you can switch back
to the green version.

A common alternative strategy is to use _A/B versions_ that are both active at
the same time and some users use one version, and some users use the other
version. This can be used for experimenting with user interface changes and
other features to get user feedback. It can also be used to verify proper
operation in a production context where problems impact a limited number of
users.

A canary deployment tests the new version but when a problem is detected it
quickly falls back to the previous version. This can be done with both of the
above strategies.

The route-based deployment strategies do not scale the number of Pods in the
services. To maintain desired performance characteristics the deployment
configurations might have to be scaled.

include::modules/deployments-proxy-shards.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/deployments-n1-compatibility.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/deployments-graceful-termination.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/deployments-blue-green.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/deployments-ab-testing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/deployments-ab-testing-lb.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
