security/compliance_operator/co-scans/compliance-operator-supported-profiles.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="compliance-operator-supported-profiles"]
= Supported compliance profiles
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: compliance-operator-supported-profiles

There are several profiles available as part of the Compliance Operator (CO)
installation. While you can use the following profiles to assess gaps in a
cluster, usage alone does not infer or guarantee compliance with a particular
profile and is not an auditor.

In order to be compliant or certified under these various standards, you need
to engage an authorized auditor such as a Qualified Security Assessor (QSA),
Joint Authorization Board (JAB), or other industry recognized regulatory
authority to assess your environment. You are required to work with an
authorized auditor to achieve compliance with a standard.


[IMPORTANT]
====
The Compliance Operator might report incorrect results on managed platforms, such as OpenShift Dedicated, Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS, and Azure Red Hat OpenShift. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6983418[Red Hat Knowledgebase Solution #6983418].
====

include::modules/compliance-supported-profiles.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="additional-resources-compliance-operator-"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../../../security/compliance_operator/co-concepts/compliance-operator-understanding.adoc#compliance_profile_types_understanding-compliance[Compliance Operator profile types]

Commit message:

add security content to ROSA topic map

security/compliance_operator/co-scans/compliance-operator-supported-profiles.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="compliance-operator-supported-profiles"]
= Supported compliance profiles
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: compliance-operator-supported-profiles

There are several profiles available as part of the Compliance Operator (CO)
installation. While you can use the following profiles to assess gaps in a
cluster, usage alone does not infer or guarantee compliance with a particular
profile and is not an auditor.

In order to be compliant or certified under these various standards, you need
to engage an authorized auditor such as a Qualified Security Assessor (QSA),
Joint Authorization Board (JAB), or other industry recognized regulatory
authority to assess your environment. You are required to work with an
authorized auditor to achieve compliance with a standard.


ifndef::openshift-dedicated,openshift-rosa[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
The Compliance Operator might report incorrect results on managed platforms, such as OpenShift Dedicated, Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS, and Azure Red Hat OpenShift. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6983418[Red Hat Knowledgebase Solution #6983418].
====
endif::[]

ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
The Compliance Operator might report incorrect results on managed platforms, such as {product-rosa}. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6983418[Red Hat Knowledgebase Solution #6983418].
====
endif::[]

ifndef::openshift-dedicated[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
The Compliance Operator might report incorrect results on managed platforms, such as {product-short-name}. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6983418[Red Hat Knowledgebase Solution #6983418].
====
endif::[]

include::modules/compliance-supported-profiles.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="additional-resources-compliance-operator-"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../../../security/compliance_operator/co-concepts/compliance-operator-understanding.adoc#compliance_profile_types_understanding-compliance[Compliance Operator profile types]
