support/gathering-cluster-data.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="gathering-cluster-data"]
= Gathering data about your cluster
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
endif::[]
:context: gathering-cluster-data

toc::[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
When opening a support case, it is helpful to provide debugging
information about your cluster to Red Hat Support.

It is recommended to provide:

* xref:../support/gathering-cluster-data.adoc#support_gathering_data_gathering-cluster-data[Data gathered using the `oc adm must-gather` command]
* The  xref:../support/gathering-cluster-data.adoc#support-get-cluster-id_gathering-cluster-data[unique cluster ID]
endif::openshift-origin[]

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
You can use the following tools to get debugging information about your {product-title} cluster.
endif::openshift-origin[]

// About the must-gather tool
include::modules/about-must-gather.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Gathering data about your cluster for Red Hat Support
include::modules/support-gather-data.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Reducing the size of must-gather output
include::modules/support-must-gather-targeted-collection.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Gathering data for specific resources
include::modules/support-must-gather-targeted-collection-gathering-data.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* xref:../hosted_control_planes/hcp-troubleshooting.adoc#hosted-control-planes-troubleshooting_hcp-troubleshooting[Gathering information to troubleshoot {hcp}]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Table of must-gather flags
include::modules/must-gather-flags.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

endif::openshift-origin[]

// Gathering data about specific features
include::modules/gathering-data-specific-features.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../nodes/cma/nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom.adoc#nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-gather[Gathering debugging data] for the Custom Metrics Autoscaler.
* link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift[Red Hat {product-title} Life Cycle Policy]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
* xref:../rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-life-cycle.html[{product-title} update life cycle]
endif::openshift-rosa[]

ifdef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
* xref:../rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-hcp-life-cycle.html[{product-title} update life cycle]
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../osd_architecture/osd_policy/osd-life-cycle.html[{product-title} update life cycle]
endif::openshift-dedicated[]

// Gathering network logs
include::modules/gathering-data-network-logs.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//Changing the must-gather storage limit
include::modules/must-gather-storage-limit.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// support log gather overview
include::modules/support-log-gather-overview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Support log gather installation
include::modules/support-log-gather-install-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/support-log-gather-install-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//Support log gather configuration
include::modules/support-log-gather-configure-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../authentication/understanding-and-creating-service-accounts.adoc#understanding-and-creating-service-accounts[Understanding and creating service accounts]

include::modules/support-log-gather-config-params.adoc[leveloffset=+2]


//Support log gather uninstallation
include::modules/support-log-gather-uninstall-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/support-log-gather-remove-resources-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Obtain your cluster identifier
include::modules/support-get-cluster-id.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin,openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
// About `sosreport`
include::modules/about-sosreport.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Generating a `sosreport` archive for an {product-title} cluster node
include::modules/support-generating-a-sosreport-archive.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin,openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
// Querying bootstrap node journal logs
include::modules/querying-bootstrap-node-journal-logs.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

// Querying cluster node journal logs
include::modules/querying-cluster-node-journal-logs.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Network trace methods
include::modules/support-network-trace-methods.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Collecting a host network trace
include::modules/support-collecting-host-network-trace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Collecting a network trace from an {product-title} node or container
include::modules/support-collecting-network-trace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
// Collecting a host network trace
include::modules/support-collecting-host-network-trace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Providing diagnostic data to Red Hat Support
include::modules/support-providing-diagnostic-data-to-red-hat.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

// About `toolbox`
include::modules/about-toolbox.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Installing packages to a toolbox container

include::modules/support-installing-packages-to-a-toolbox-container.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Starting an alternative image with toolbox

include::modules/support-starting-an-alternative-image-with-toolbox.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

Commit message:

OSDOCS-16576: Corrected Support book for DITA migration

support/gathering-cluster-data.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="gathering-cluster-data"]
= Gathering data about your cluster

include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
endif::[]
:context: gathering-cluster-data

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
When opening a support case, it is helpful to provide debugging information about your cluster to Red Hat Support. You can use tools such as `must-gather`, `sosreport`, and cluster node journal logs to collect diagnostic data.

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
When opening a support case, it is helpful to provide debugging
information about your cluster to Red Hat Support.

It is recommended to provide:

* xref:../support/gathering-cluster-data.adoc#support_gathering_data_gathering-cluster-data[Data gathered using the `oc adm must-gather` command]
* The  xref:../support/gathering-cluster-data.adoc#support-get-cluster-id_gathering-cluster-data[unique cluster ID]
endif::openshift-origin[]

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
You can use the following tools to get debugging information about your {product-title} cluster.
endif::openshift-origin[]

// About the must-gather tool
include::modules/about-must-gather.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Gathering data about your cluster for Red Hat Support
include::modules/support-gather-data.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Reducing the size of must-gather output
include::modules/support-must-gather-targeted-collection.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Gathering data for specific resources
include::modules/support-must-gather-targeted-collection-gathering-data.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources
* xref:../hosted_control_planes/hcp-troubleshooting.adoc#hosted-control-planes-troubleshooting_hcp-troubleshooting[Gathering information to troubleshoot {hcp}]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Table of must-gather flags
include::modules/must-gather-flags.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

endif::openshift-origin[]

// Gathering data about specific features
include::modules/gathering-data-specific-features.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../nodes/cma/nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom.adoc#nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-gather[Gathering debugging data for the Custom Metrics Autoscaler]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift[Red Hat {product-title} Life Cycle Policy]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
* xref:../rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-life-cycle.html[{product-title} update life cycle]
endif::openshift-rosa[]

ifdef::openshift-rosa-hcp[]
* xref:../rosa_architecture/rosa_policy_service_definition/rosa-hcp-life-cycle.html[{product-title} update life cycle]
endif::openshift-rosa-hcp[]

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../osd_architecture/osd_policy/osd-life-cycle.html[{product-title} update life cycle]
endif::openshift-dedicated[]

// Gathering network logs
include::modules/gathering-data-network-logs.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//Changing the must-gather storage limit
include::modules/must-gather-storage-limit.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// support log gather overview
include::modules/support-log-gather-overview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Support log gather installation
include::modules/support-log-gather-install-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/support-log-gather-install-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//Support log gather configuration
include::modules/support-log-gather-configure-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../authentication/understanding-and-creating-service-accounts.adoc#understanding-and-creating-service-accounts[Understanding and creating service accounts]

include::modules/support-log-gather-config-params.adoc[leveloffset=+2]


//Support log gather uninstallation
include::modules/support-log-gather-uninstall-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/support-log-gather-remove-resources-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Obtain your cluster identifier
include::modules/support-get-cluster-id.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin,openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
// About `sosreport`
include::modules/about-sosreport.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Generating a `sosreport` archive for an {product-title} cluster node
include::modules/support-generating-a-sosreport-archive.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin,openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]
// Querying bootstrap node journal logs
include::modules/querying-bootstrap-node-journal-logs.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-rosa-hcp,openshift-dedicated[]

// Querying cluster node journal logs
include::modules/querying-cluster-node-journal-logs.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Network trace methods
include::modules/support-network-trace-methods.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Collecting a host network trace
include::modules/support-collecting-host-network-trace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Collecting a network trace from an {product-title} node or container
include::modules/support-collecting-network-trace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
// Collecting a host network trace
include::modules/support-collecting-host-network-trace.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

ifndef::openshift-origin[]
// Providing diagnostic data to Red Hat Support
include::modules/support-providing-diagnostic-data-to-red-hat.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

endif::openshift-origin[]

// About `toolbox`
include::modules/about-toolbox.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Installing packages to a toolbox container

include::modules/support-installing-packages-to-a-toolbox-container.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Starting an alternative image with toolbox

include::modules/support-starting-an-alternative-image-with-toolbox.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
