virt/about-virt.adoc, before:

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
[id="about-virt"]
= About {VirtProductName}
:context: about-virt

toc::[]

Learn about {VirtProductName}'s capabilities and support scope.

include::modules/virt-what-you-can-do-with-virt.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// This line is attached to the above `virt-what-you-can-do-with-virt` module.
// It is included here in the assembly because of the xref ban.

You can use {VirtProductName} with the xref:../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/about-ovn-kubernetes.adoc#about-ovn-kubernetes[OVN-Kubernetes], xref:../networking/openshift_sdn/about-openshift-sdn.adoc#about-openshift-sdn[OpenShift SDN], or one of the other certified default Container Network Interface (CNI) network providers listed in link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5436171[Certified OpenShift CNI Plug-ins].

You can check your {VirtProductName} cluster for compliance issues by installing the xref:../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-understanding.adoc#understanding-compliance[Compliance Operator] and running a scan with the `ocp4-moderate` and `ocp4-moderate-node` xref:../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-supported-profiles.adoc#compliance-operator-supported-profiles[profiles]. The Compliance Operator uses OpenSCAP, a link:https://www.nist.gov/[NIST-certified tool], to scan and enforce security policies.

:FeatureName: {VirtProductName} integration with the Compliance Operator
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

include::modules/virt-supported-cluster-version.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-sno-differences.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_about-virt"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../installing/installing_sno/install-sno-preparing-to-install-sno.adoc#install-sno-about-installing-on-a-single-node_install-sno-preparing[About {sno}]

* link:https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/using-the-openshift-assisted-installer-service-to-deploy-an-openshift-cluster-on-metal-and-vsphere[Assisted installer]

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms.adoc#virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms[Hostpath Provisioner (HPP)]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_data_foundation/4.10/html-single/deploying_openshift_data_foundation_on_single_node_openshift_clusters/index#doc-wrapper[{product-title} Data Foundation Logical Volume Manager Operator]

* xref:../nodes/pods/nodes-pods-priority.adoc#priority-preemption-other_nodes-pods-priority[Pod disruption budgets]

* xref:../virt/live_migration/virt-live-migration.adoc#virt-live-migration[Live migration]

* xref:../virt/live_migration/virt-configuring-vmi-eviction-strategy.adoc#virt-configuring-vmi-eviction-strategy[Eviction strategy]

Commit message:

known issues icon for docs

virt/about-virt.adoc, after:

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
[id="about-virt"]
= About {VirtProductName}
:context: about-virt

toc::[]

Learn about {VirtProductName}'s capabilities and support scope.

This is a test of known issues icon. {virt-issue}

include::modules/virt-what-you-can-do-with-virt.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// This line is attached to the above `virt-what-you-can-do-with-virt` module.
// It is included here in the assembly because of the xref ban.

You can use {VirtProductName} with the xref:../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/about-ovn-kubernetes.adoc#about-ovn-kubernetes[OVN-Kubernetes], xref:../networking/openshift_sdn/about-openshift-sdn.adoc#about-openshift-sdn[OpenShift SDN], or one of the other certified default Container Network Interface (CNI) network providers listed in link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5436171[Certified OpenShift CNI Plug-ins].

You can check your {VirtProductName} cluster for compliance issues by installing the xref:../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-understanding.adoc#understanding-compliance[Compliance Operator] and running a scan with the `ocp4-moderate` and `ocp4-moderate-node` xref:../security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-supported-profiles.adoc#compliance-operator-supported-profiles[profiles]. The Compliance Operator uses OpenSCAP, a link:https://www.nist.gov/[NIST-certified tool], to scan and enforce security policies.

:FeatureName: {VirtProductName} integration with the Compliance Operator
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

include::modules/virt-supported-cluster-version.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-sno-differences.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_about-virt"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../installing/installing_sno/install-sno-preparing-to-install-sno.adoc#install-sno-about-installing-on-a-single-node_install-sno-preparing[About {sno}]

* link:https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/using-the-openshift-assisted-installer-service-to-deploy-an-openshift-cluster-on-metal-and-vsphere[Assisted installer]

* xref:../virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms.adoc#virt-configuring-local-storage-for-vms[Hostpath Provisioner (HPP)]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_data_foundation/4.10/html-single/deploying_openshift_data_foundation_on_single_node_openshift_clusters/index#doc-wrapper[{product-title} Data Foundation Logical Volume Manager Operator]

* xref:../nodes/pods/nodes-pods-priority.adoc#priority-preemption-other_nodes-pods-priority[Pod disruption budgets]

* xref:../virt/live_migration/virt-live-migration.adoc#virt-live-migration[Live migration]

* xref:../virt/live_migration/virt-configuring-vmi-eviction-strategy.adoc#virt-configuring-vmi-eviction-strategy[Eviction strategy]
