virt/install/virt-planning-environment-object-maximums.adoc, before:

[id="virt-planning-environment-object-maximums"]
include::modules/virt-document-attributes.adoc[]
= Planning your environment according to {VirtProductName} object maximums
:context: virt-planning-environment-object-maximums

toc::[]

You can plan your {VirtProductName} {VirtVersion} cluster by considering tested object maximums. Guidelines for object maximums are based on the largest possible cluster. For smaller clusters, the maximums are lower. In most cases, exceeding these numbers results in lower overall performance. It does not necessarily mean that the cluster will fail.

The maximum number of virtual machines in a node is determined by a number of variables that include the virtual machines' CPUs, memory, and network characteristics.

include::modules/virt-tested-cluster-maximums.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../../scalability_and_performance/planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums.adoc#planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums[Planning your environment according to object maximums]

Commit message:

cnv: Point to the KCS for object maximums
Relates to https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1997540

Signed-off-by: Fabian Deutsch <fabiand@fedoraproject.org>

virt/install/virt-planning-environment-object-maximums.adoc, after:

[id="virt-planning-environment-object-maximums"]
include::modules/virt-document-attributes.adoc[]
= Planning your environment according to {VirtProductName} object maximums
:context: virt-planning-environment-object-maximums

toc::[]

You can plan your {VirtProductName} {VirtVersion} cluster by considering tested object maximums. Guidelines for object maximums are based on the largest possible cluster. For smaller clusters, the maximums are lower. In most cases, exceeding these numbers results in lower overall performance. It does not necessarily mean that the cluster will fail.

Informations about the limitations that apply to guests and {VirtProductName} can be found at https://access.redhat.com/articles/6571671.

[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../../scalability_and_performance/planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums.adoc#planning-your-environment-according-to-object-maximums[Planning your environment according to object maximums]
