migration_toolkit_for_containers/installing-mtc.adoc, before:

[id="installing-mtc"]
= Installing the Migration Toolkit for Containers
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-mtc
:installing-mtc:

toc::[]

You can install the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 4.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must install the same {mtc-short} version on all clusters.
====

By default, the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod run on the target cluster. You can configure the `Migration Controller` custom resource manifest to run the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod on a link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5064151[remote cluster].

After you have installed {mtc-short}, you must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository.

include::modules/migration-compatibility-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-proxies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For more information, see xref:../networking/enable-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc#nw-proxy-configure-object_config-cluster-wide-proxy[Configuring the cluster-wide proxy].

[id="configuring-replication-repository_{context}"]
== Configuring a replication repository

You must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository. The {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) copies data from the source cluster to the replication repository, and then from the replication repository to the target cluster.

{mtc-short} supports the xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[file system and snapshot data copy methods] for migrating data from the source cluster to the target cluster. You can select a method that is suited for your environment and is supported by your storage provider.

All clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the replication repository.

If you use a proxy server with an internally hosted replication repository, you must ensure that the proxy allows access to the replication repository.

{mtc-short} supports the following storage providers:

* Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG)
* Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3
* Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
* Microsoft Azure Blob
* Generic S3 object storage, for example, Minio or Ceph S3

[id="{context}_configuring-replication-repository-additional-resources"]
[discrete]
=== Additional resources

* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-mtc-workflow_about-mtc[{mtc-short} workflow]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[About data copy methods]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/migrating-applications-with-mtc.adoc#migration-adding-replication-repository-to-cam_migrating-applications-with-mtc[Adding a replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console]

include::modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/migration-configuring-aws-s3.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/migration-configuring-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/migration-configuring-azure.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

:installing-mtc!:

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.8] MIG-802: legacy MTV operator for OCP 3.7 to 4.5

migration_toolkit_for_containers/installing-mtc.adoc, after:

[id="installing-mtc"]
= Installing the Migration Toolkit for Containers
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-mtc
:installing-mtc:

toc::[]

You can install the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 4.

After you manually install the legacy {mtc-full} Operator on the {product-title} 4 source cluster, you install the {mtc-full} Operator on the {product-title} {product-version} target cluster by using the Operator Lifecycle Manager.

By default, the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod run on the target cluster. You can configure the `Migration Controller` custom resource manifest to run the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod on a link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5064151[remote cluster].

After you have installed {mtc-short}, you must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository.

include::modules/migration-compatibility-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-legacy-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-proxies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For more information, see xref:../networking/enable-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc#nw-proxy-configure-object_config-cluster-wide-proxy[Configuring the cluster-wide proxy].

[id="configuring-replication-repository_{context}"]
== Configuring a replication repository

You must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository. The {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) copies data from the source cluster to the replication repository, and then from the replication repository to the target cluster.

{mtc-short} supports the xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[file system and snapshot data copy methods] for migrating data from the source cluster to the target cluster. Select a method that is suited for your environment and is supported by your storage provider.

{mtc-short} supports the following storage providers:

* Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG)
* Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3
* Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
* Microsoft Azure Blob
* Generic S3 object storage, for example, Minio or Ceph S3

[id="replication-repository-prerequisites_{context}"]
=== Prerequisites

* All clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the replication repository.
* If you use a proxy server with an internally hosted replication repository, you must ensure that the proxy allows access to the replication repository.

include::modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/migration-configuring-aws-s3.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/migration-configuring-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/migration-configuring-azure.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="{context}_configuring-replication-repository-additional-resources"]
=== Additional resources for configuring a replication repository

* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-mtc-workflow_about-mtc[{mtc-short} workflow]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[About data copy methods]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/migrating-applications-with-mtc.adoc#migration-adding-replication-repository-to-cam_migrating-applications-with-mtc[Adding a replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console]

:installing-mtc!:
