migration_toolkit_for_containers/installing-mtc-restricted.adoc, before:

[id="installing-mtc-restricted"]
= Installing the Migration Toolkit for Containers in a restricted network environment
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-mtc-restricted
:installing-mtc-restricted:

toc::[]

You can install the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 4 in a restricted network environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must install the same {mtc-short} version on all clusters.
====

By default, the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod run on the target cluster.

You can configure the `Migration Controller` custom resource manifest to run the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod on a link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5064151[remote cluster].

After you have installed {mtc-short}, you must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository.

include::modules/migration-compatibility-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-proxies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For more information, see xref:../networking/enable-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc#nw-proxy-configure-object_config-cluster-wide-proxy[Configuring the cluster-wide proxy].

[id="configuring-replication-repository_{context}"]
== Configuring a replication repository

The Multicloud Object Gateway is the only supported option for a restricted network environment.

{mtc-short} supports the xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[file system and snapshot data copy methods] for migrating data from the source cluster to the target cluster. You can select a method that is suited for your environment and is supported by your storage provider.

All clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the replication repository.

If you use a proxy server with an internally hosted replication repository, you must ensure that the proxy allows access to the replication repository.

[id="{context}_configuring-replication-repository-additional-resources"]
[discrete]
=== Additional resources for configuring a replication repository

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_container_storage/4.6/html-single/planning_your_deployment/index#disconnected-environment_rhocs[Disconnected environment] in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Storage documentation.
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-mtc-workflow_about-mtc[{mtc-short} workflow]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[About data copy methods]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/migrating-applications-with-mtc.adoc#migration-adding-replication-repository-to-cam_migrating-applications-with-mtc[Adding a replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console]

include::modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
:installing-mtc-restricted!:

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.6] MIG-802: legacy MTV operator for OCP 3.7 to 4.5

migration_toolkit_for_containers/installing-mtc-restricted.adoc, after:

[id="installing-mtc-restricted"]
= Installing the Migration Toolkit for Containers in a restricted network environment
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-mtc-restricted
:installing-mtc-restricted:

toc::[]

You can install the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 4 in a restricted network environment.

After you install the {mtc-full} Operator on {product-title} {product-version} by using the Operator Lifecycle Manager, you manually install the legacy {mtc-full} Operator on the {product-title} 4 source cluster.

By default, the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod run on the target cluster. You can configure the `Migration Controller` custom resource manifest to run the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod on a link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5064151[remote cluster].

After you have installed {mtc-short}, you must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository.

include::modules/migration-compatibility-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-legacy-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-proxies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For more information, see xref:../networking/enable-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc#nw-proxy-configure-object_config-cluster-wide-proxy[Configuring the cluster-wide proxy].

[id="configuring-replication-repository_{context}"]
== Configuring a replication repository

The Multicloud Object Gateway is the only supported option for a restricted network environment.

{mtc-short} supports the xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[file system and snapshot data copy methods] for migrating data from the source cluster to the target cluster. You can select a method that is suited for your environment and is supported by your storage provider.

[id="replication-repository-prerequisites_{context}"]
=== Prerequisites

* All clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the replication repository.
* If you use a proxy server with an internally hosted replication repository, you must ensure that the proxy allows access to the replication repository.

include::modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="{context}_configuring-replication-repository-additional-resources"]
=== Additional resources for configuring a replication repository

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_container_storage/4.6/html-single/planning_your_deployment/index#disconnected-environment_rhocs[Disconnected environment] in the Red Hat OpenShift Container Storage documentation.
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-mtc-workflow_about-mtc[{mtc-short} workflow]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/about-mtc.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc[About data copy methods]
* xref:../migration_toolkit_for_containers/migrating-applications-with-mtc.adoc#migration-adding-replication-repository-to-cam_migrating-applications-with-mtc[Adding a replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console]
:installing-mtc-restricted!:
