migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/installing-restricted-3-4.adoc, before:

[id="installing-restricted-3-4"]
= Installing the Migration Toolkit for Containers in a restricted network environment
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-restricted-3-4
:installing-restricted-3-4:

toc::[]

You can install the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 3 and on {product-title} {product-version} in a restricted network environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You must install the same {mtc-short} version on all clusters.
====

By default, the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod run on the target cluster.

You can configure the `Migration Controller` custom resource manifest to run the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod on a link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5064151[source cluster or on a remote cluster].

After you have installed {mtc-short}, you must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository.

include::modules/migration-compatibility-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-3.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-proxies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For more information, see xref:../networking/enable-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc#nw-proxy-configure-object_config-cluster-wide-proxy[Configuring the cluster-wide proxy].

[id="configuring-replication-repository_{context}"]
== Configuring a replication repository

You must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository. The {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) copies data from the source cluster to the replication repository, and then from the replication repository to the target cluster. Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG) is the only supported option for a restricted network environment.

{mtc-short} supports the xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/about-mtc-3-4.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc-3-4[file system and snapshot data copy methods] for migrating data from the source cluster to the target cluster. You can select a method that is suited for your environment and is supported by your storage provider.

All clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the replication repository.

If you use a proxy server with an internally hosted replication repository, you must ensure that the proxy allows access to the replication repository.

[id="{context}_configuring-replication-repository-additional-resources"]
[discrete]
=== Additional resources

* xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/about-mtc-3-4.adoc#migration-mtc-workflow_about-mtc-3-4[{mtc-short} workflow]
* xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/about-mtc-3-4.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc-3-4[About data copy methods]
* xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/migrating-applications-3-4.adoc#migration-adding-replication-repository-to-cam_migrating-applications-3-4[Adding a replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console]

include::modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

:installing-restricted-3-4!:

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.8] MIG-802: legacy MTV operator for OCP 3.7 to 4.5

migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/installing-restricted-3-4.adoc, after:

[id="installing-restricted-3-4"]
= Installing the Migration Toolkit for Containers in a restricted network environment
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-restricted-3-4
:installing-restricted-3-4:

toc::[]

You can install the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 3 and 4 in a restricted network environment.

After you install the {mtc-full} Operator on {product-title} {product-version} by using the Operator Lifecycle Manager, you manually install the legacy {mtc-full} Operator on {product-title} 3.

By default, the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod run on the target cluster. You can configure the `Migration Controller` custom resource manifest to run the {mtc-short} web console and the `Migration Controller` pod on a link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5064151[source cluster or on a remote cluster].

After you have installed {mtc-short}, you must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository.

include::modules/migration-compatibility-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-installing-legacy-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-proxies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

For more information, see xref:../networking/enable-cluster-wide-proxy.adoc#nw-proxy-configure-object_config-cluster-wide-proxy[Configuring the cluster-wide proxy].

[id="configuring-replication-repository_{context}"]
== Configuring a replication repository

You must configure an object storage to use as a replication repository. The {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) copies data from the source cluster to the replication repository, and then from the replication repository to the target cluster. Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG) is the only supported option for a restricted network environment.

{mtc-short} supports the xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/about-mtc-3-4.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc-3-4[file system and snapshot data copy methods] for migrating data from the source cluster to the target cluster. You can select a method that is suited for your environment and is supported by your storage provider.

[id="replication-repository-prerequisites_{context}"]
=== Prerequisites

* All clusters must have uninterrupted network access to the replication repository.
* If you use a proxy server with an internally hosted replication repository, you must ensure that the proxy allows access to the replication repository.

include::modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="{context}_configuring-replication-repository-additional-resources"]
=== Additional resources for configuring a replication repository

* xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/about-mtc-3-4.adoc#migration-mtc-workflow_about-mtc-3-4[{mtc-short} workflow]
* xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/about-mtc-3-4.adoc#migration-understanding-data-copy-methods_about-mtc-3-4[About data copy methods]
* xref:../migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/migrating-applications-3-4.adoc#migration-adding-replication-repository-to-cam_migrating-applications-3-4[Adding a replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console]
:installing-restricted-3-4!:
