post_installation_configuration/coreos-layering.adoc, before:

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="coreos-layering"]
= {op-system} image layering
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: coreos-layering

toc::[]


{op-system-first} image layering allows you to easily extend the functionality of your base {op-system} image by _layering_ additional images onto the base image. This layering does not modify the base {op-system} image. Instead, it creates a _custom layered image_ that includes all {op-system} functionality and adds additional functionality to specific nodes in the cluster.

You create a custom layered image by using a Containerfile and applying it to nodes by using a `MachineConfig` object. The Machine Config Operator overrides the base {op-system} image, as specified by the `osImageURL` value in the associated machine config, and boots the new image. You can remove the custom layered image by deleting the machine config, The MCO reboots the nodes back to the base {op-system} image.

With {op-system} image layering, you can install RPMs into your base image, and your custom content will be booted alongside {op-system}. The Machine Config Operator (MCO) can roll out these custom layered images and monitor these custom containers in the same way it does for the default {op-system} image. {op-system} image layering gives you greater flexibility in how you manage your {op-system} nodes.

// NOTE from https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2214?focusedCommentId=21430101&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-21430101

[IMPORTANT]
====
RPMs installed through a custom layered image can conflict with RPMs installed by using a machine config. It is recommended to use either machine config or a custom layered image to add extensions, but not both, unless you are certain there will be no conflicts. If there is a conflict, the MCO enters a `degraded` state when it tries to install the machine config RPM. You need to remove the conflicting extension from your machine config before proceeding.
====

As soon as you apply the custom layered image to your cluster, you effectively _take ownership_ of your custom layered images and those nodes. While Red Hat remains responsible for maintaining and updating the base {op-system} image on standard nodes, you are responsible for maintaining and updating images on nodes that use a custom layered image. You assume the responsibility for the package you applied with the custom layered image and any issues that might arise with the package.

:FeatureName: Image layering
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

Currently, {op-system} image layering allows you to work with Customer Experience and Engagement (CEE) to obtain and apply link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2996001[Hotfix packages] on top of your {op-system} image. In some instances, you might want a bug fix or enhancement before it is included in an official {product-title} release. {op-system} image layering allows you to easily add the Hotfix before it is officially released and remove the Hotfix when the underlying {op-system} image incorporates the fix.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Some Hotfixes require a Red Hat Support Exception and are outside of the normal scope of {product-title} support coverage or life cycle policies.
====

In the event you want a Hotfix, it will be provided to you based on link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2996001[Red Hat Hotfix policy]. Apply it on top of the base image and test that new custom layered image in a non-production environment. When you are satisfied that the custom layered image is safe to use in production, you can roll it out on your own schedule to specific node pools. For any reason, you can easily roll back the custom layered image and return to using the default {op-system}.

[NOTE]
====
It is planned for future releases that you can use {op-system} image layering to incorporate third-party software packages such as libreswan or numactl.
====

////
Future features
By using layering, you can extend your {op-system} in a number of ways, including:

* {op-system} Hotfixes
* Third-party RHEL packages.
* Bleeding edge drivers and kernel enhancements to improve performance or add capabilities.
* Foresic client tools to investigate possible and actual break-ins.
* Inventory agents that provide a coherent view of the entire fleet.
* Critical and important CVEs as soon as errata are available in RHEL to keep your systems secure.
* SSH Key management packages.
////

To apply a custom layered image, you create a Containerfile that references an {product-title} image and the Hotfix that you want to apply. For example:

// For example, the following Containerfile installs a Hotfix:

.Example Containerfile to apply a Hotfix
[source,yaml]
----
# Using a 4.12.0 image
FROM quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:6499bc69a0707fcad481c3cb73225b867d
#Install hotfix rpm
RUN rpm-ostree override replace https://example.com/myrepo/haproxy-1.0.16-5.el8.src.rpm && \
    rpm-ostree cleanup -m && \
    ostree container commit
----

////
For example, the following Containerfile installs the libreswan package from quay.io:
[source,terminal]
----
# Using aa 4.12.0 image
FROM quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:6499bc69a0707fcad481c3cb73225b867dc31b345c6e6204e28
RUN rpm-ostree install libreswan && \
    rpm-ostree cleanup -m && \
    ostree container commit
----
////

[NOTE]
====
Use the same base {op-system} image installed on the rest of your cluster. Use the `oc adm release info --image-for rhel-coreos-8` command to obtain the base image used in your cluster.
====

Push the resulting custom layered image to an image registry. In a non-production {product-title} cluster, create a `MachineConfig` object for the targeted node pool that points to the new image.

The Machine Config Operator (MCO) updates the operating system with content provided in the machine config. This creates a custom layered image that overrides the base {op-system} image on those nodes.

After you create the machine config, the MCO:

. Renders a new machine config for the specified pool or pools.
. Performs cordon and drain operations on the nodes in the pool or pools.
. Writes the rest of the machine config parameters onto the nodes.
. Applies the custom layered image to the node.
. Reboots the node using the new image.

[IMPORTANT]
====
It is strongly recommended that you test your images outside of your production environment before rolling out to your cluster.
====

include::modules/coreos-layering-configuring.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources
xref:../post_installation_configuration/coreos-layering.adoc#coreos-layering-updating_coreos-layering[Updating with a {op-system} custom layered image]

include::modules/coreos-layering-removing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/coreos-layering-updating.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

////
Sources:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Eow2IReNWqnIh5HvCfcKV2MWgHUmFKSnBkt2rH6_V_M/edit
https://hackmd.io/OKc5ZnN7SQm3myHaGqksBg
https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/ocp-coreos-layering/ocp-coreos-layering.md
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RbfCJuL_NBaWvUmd9nmiG8-7MwzsvWHjrIS2LglCYM0/edit
////

Commit message:

coreos-layering: add notes for kernel builds

post_installation_configuration/coreos-layering.adoc, after:

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="coreos-layering"]
= {op-system} image layering
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: coreos-layering

toc::[]


{op-system-first} image layering allows you to easily extend the functionality of your base {op-system} image by _layering_ additional images onto the base image. This layering does not modify the base {op-system} image. Instead, it creates a _custom layered image_ that includes all {op-system} functionality and adds additional functionality to specific nodes in the cluster.

You create a custom layered image by using a Containerfile and applying it to nodes by using a `MachineConfig` object. The Machine Config Operator overrides the base {op-system} image, as specified by the `osImageURL` value in the associated machine config, and boots the new image. You can remove the custom layered image by deleting the machine config, The MCO reboots the nodes back to the base {op-system} image.

With {op-system} image layering, you can install RPMs into your base image, and your custom content will be booted alongside {op-system}. The Machine Config Operator (MCO) can roll out these custom layered images and monitor these custom containers in the same way it does for the default {op-system} image. {op-system} image layering gives you greater flexibility in how you manage your {op-system} nodes.

// NOTE from https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-2214?focusedCommentId=21430101&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-21430101

[IMPORTANT]
====
RPMs installed through a custom layered image can conflict with RPMs installed by using a machine config. It is recommended to use either machine config or a custom layered image to add extensions, but not both, unless you are certain there will be no conflicts. If there is a conflict, the MCO enters a `degraded` state when it tries to install the machine config RPM. You need to remove the conflicting extension from your machine config before proceeding.
====

As soon as you apply the custom layered image to your cluster, you effectively _take ownership_ of your custom layered images and those nodes. While Red Hat remains responsible for maintaining and updating the base {op-system} image on standard nodes, you are responsible for maintaining and updating images on nodes that use a custom layered image. You assume the responsibility for the package you applied with the custom layered image and any issues that might arise with the package.

:FeatureName: Image layering
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

Currently, {op-system} image layering allows you to work with Customer Experience and Engagement (CEE) to obtain and apply link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2996001[Hotfix packages] on top of your {op-system} image. In some instances, you might want a bug fix or enhancement before it is included in an official {product-title} release. {op-system} image layering allows you to easily add the Hotfix before it is officially released and remove the Hotfix when the underlying {op-system} image incorporates the fix.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Some Hotfixes require a Red Hat Support Exception and are outside of the normal scope of {product-title} support coverage or life cycle policies.
====

In the event you want a Hotfix, it will be provided to you based on link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2996001[Red Hat Hotfix policy]. Apply it on top of the base image and test that new custom layered image in a non-production environment. When you are satisfied that the custom layered image is safe to use in production, you can roll it out on your own schedule to specific node pools. For any reason, you can easily roll back the custom layered image and return to using the default {op-system}.

[NOTE]
====
It is planned for future releases that you can use {op-system} image layering to incorporate third-party software packages such as libreswan or numactl.
====

////
Future features
By using layering, you can extend your {op-system} in a number of ways, including:

* {op-system} Hotfixes
* Third-party RHEL packages.
* Bleeding edge drivers and kernel enhancements to improve performance or add capabilities.
* Foresic client tools to investigate possible and actual break-ins.
* Inventory agents that provide a coherent view of the entire fleet.
* Critical and important CVEs as soon as errata are available in RHEL to keep your systems secure.
* SSH Key management packages.
////

To apply a custom layered image, you create a Containerfile that references an {product-title} image and the Hotfix that you want to apply. For example:

// For example, the following Containerfile installs a Hotfix:

.Example Containerfile to apply a Hotfix
[source,yaml]
----
# Using a 4.12.0 image
FROM quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:6499bc69a0707fcad481c3cb73225b867d
#Install hotfix rpm
RUN rpm-ostree override replace https://example.com/myrepo/haproxy-1.0.16-5.el8.x86_64.rpm && \
    rpm-ostree cleanup -m && \
    ostree container commit
----

////
For example, the following Containerfile installs the libreswan package from quay.io:
[source,terminal]
----
# Using a 4.12.0 image
FROM quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:6499bc69a0707fcad481c3cb73225b867dc31b345c6e6204e28
RUN rpm-ostree install libreswan && \
    rpm-ostree cleanup -m && \
    ostree container commit
----
////

[NOTE]
====
Use the same base {op-system} image installed on the rest of your cluster. Use the `oc adm release info --image-for rhel-coreos-8` command to obtain the base image used in your cluster.
====

[NOTE]
====
In OCP 4.12 some packages require additional configuration options. For example, if you are replacing the kernel, you need to enable rpm-ostree's cliwrap by including the following command in your Containerfile: 
`rpm-ostree cliwrap install-to-root /`.
====

.Example Containerfile to replace the kernel packages using the above note
[source,yaml]
----
# Using a 4.12.0 image
FROM quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:6499bc69a0707fcad481c3cb73225b867d
RUN rpm-ostree cliwrap install-to-root /
# Replace the kernel, kernel-core, kernel-modules and kernel-modules-extra packages.
RUN rpm-ostree override replace https://example.com/myrepo/kernel-4.18.0.x86_64.rpm \
    https://example.com/myrepo/kernel-core-4.18.0.x86_64.rpm \
    https://example.com/myrepo/kernel-modules-4.18.0.x86_64.rpm \
    https://example.com/myrepo/kernel-modules-extra-4.18.0.x86_64.rpm && \
    rpm-ostree cleanup -m && \
    ostree container commit
----

Push the resulting custom layered image to an image registry. In a non-production {product-title} cluster, create a `MachineConfig` object for the targeted node pool that points to the new image.

The Machine Config Operator (MCO) updates the operating system with content provided in the machine config. This creates a custom layered image that overrides the base {op-system} image on those nodes.

After you create the machine config, the MCO:

. Renders a new machine config for the specified pool or pools.
. Performs cordon and drain operations on the nodes in the pool or pools.
. Writes the rest of the machine config parameters onto the nodes.
. Applies the custom layered image to the node.
. Reboots the node using the new image.

[IMPORTANT]
====
It is strongly recommended that you test your images outside of your production environment before rolling out to your cluster.
====

include::modules/coreos-layering-configuring.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources
xref:../post_installation_configuration/coreos-layering.adoc#coreos-layering-updating_coreos-layering[Updating with a {op-system} custom layered image]

include::modules/coreos-layering-removing.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/coreos-layering-updating.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

////
Sources:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Eow2IReNWqnIh5HvCfcKV2MWgHUmFKSnBkt2rH6_V_M/edit
https://hackmd.io/OKc5ZnN7SQm3myHaGqksBg
https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/ocp-coreos-layering/ocp-coreos-layering.md
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RbfCJuL_NBaWvUmd9nmiG8-7MwzsvWHjrIS2LglCYM0/edit
////
