post_installation_configuration/storage-configuration.adoc, before:

:context: post-install-storage-configuration
[id="post-install-storage-configuration"]
= Post-installation storage configuration
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:gluster: GlusterFS
:gluster-native: Containerized GlusterFS
:gluster-external: External GlusterFS
:gluster-install-link: https://docs.gluster.org/en/latest/Install-Guide/Overview/
:gluster-admin-link: https://docs.gluster.org/en/latest/Administrator%20Guide/overview/
:gluster-role-link: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-ansible/tree/master/roles/openshift_storage_glusterfs
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-webscale[]
:gluster: Red Hat Gluster Storage
:gluster-native: converged mode
:gluster-external: independent mode
:gluster-install-link: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_gluster_storage/3.3/html/installation_guide/
:gluster-admin-link: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_gluster_storage/3.3/html/administration_guide/
:cns-link: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_gluster_storage/3.3/html/container-native_storage_for_openshift_container_platform/
endif::[]
toc::[]

After installing {product-title}, you can further expand and customize your
cluster to your requirements, including storage configuration.

[id="post-install-dynamic-provisioning"]
== Dynamic provisioning

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-about.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-available-plugins.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-defining-storage-class.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-storage-class-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-annotations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-cinder-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-aws-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-azure-disk-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-azure-file-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-azure-file-considerations.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-gce-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-gluster-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-ceph-rbd-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-vsphere-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-change-default-class.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="post-install-optimizing-storage"]
== Optimizing storage

Optimizing storage helps to minimize storage use across all resources. By
optimizing storage, administrators help ensure that existing storage resources
are working in an efficient manner.

include::modules/available-persistent-storage-options.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/recommended-configurable-storage-technology.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="post-install-deploy-OCS"]
== Deploy Red Hat OpenShift Container Storage
// This section is sourced from storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-ocs.adoc
Red Hat OpenShift Container Storage is a provider of agnostic persistent storage for {product-title} supporting file, block, and object storage, either in-house or in hybrid clouds. As a Red Hat storage solution, Red Hat OpenShift Container Storage is completely integrated with {product-title} for deployment, management, and monitoring.

include::modules/deploy-red-hat-openshift-container-storage.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

Rebrand of "OpenShift Container Storage" to "OpenShift Data Foundation"

post_installation_configuration/storage-configuration.adoc, after:

:context: post-install-storage-configuration
[id="post-install-storage-configuration"]
= Post-installation storage configuration
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:gluster: GlusterFS
:gluster-native: Containerized GlusterFS
:gluster-external: External GlusterFS
:gluster-install-link: https://docs.gluster.org/en/latest/Install-Guide/Overview/
:gluster-admin-link: https://docs.gluster.org/en/latest/Administrator%20Guide/overview/
:gluster-role-link: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-ansible/tree/master/roles/openshift_storage_glusterfs
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-webscale[]
:gluster: Red Hat Gluster Storage
:gluster-native: converged mode
:gluster-external: independent mode
:gluster-install-link: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_gluster_storage/3.3/html/installation_guide/
:gluster-admin-link: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_gluster_storage/3.3/html/administration_guide/
:cns-link: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_gluster_storage/3.3/html/container-native_storage_for_openshift_container_platform/
endif::[]
toc::[]

After installing {product-title}, you can further expand and customize your
cluster to your requirements, including storage configuration.

[id="post-install-dynamic-provisioning"]
== Dynamic provisioning

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-about.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-available-plugins.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-defining-storage-class.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-storage-class-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-annotations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-cinder-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-aws-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-azure-disk-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-azure-file-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-azure-file-considerations.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-gce-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-gluster-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-ceph-rbd-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-vsphere-definition.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/dynamic-provisioning-change-default-class.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="post-install-optimizing-storage"]
== Optimizing storage

Optimizing storage helps to minimize storage use across all resources. By
optimizing storage, administrators help ensure that existing storage resources
are working in an efficient manner.

include::modules/available-persistent-storage-options.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/recommended-configurable-storage-technology.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="post-install-deploy-OCS"]
== Deploy Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation
// This section is sourced from storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-ocs.adoc
{rh-storage-first} is a provider of agnostic persistent storage for {product-title} supporting file, block, and object storage, either in-house or in hybrid clouds. As a Red Hat storage solution, {rh-storage-first} is completely integrated with {product-title} for deployment, management, and monitoring.

include::modules/deploy-red-hat-openshift-container-storage.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
