modules/about-rhde.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// scalability_and_performance/managing-bare-metal-hosts.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-rhde_{context}"]
= About {product-title}

{product-title} is for organizations that need small-form-factor edge devices and support for bare metal, virtualized, or containerized applications. {product-title} helps address many of the emerging questions around large-scale edge computing at the device edge by incorporating Kubernetes features in a new, smaller, lighter-weight footprint with an edge-optimized Linux operating system built from the world's leading enterprise Linux platform in {op-system}. You can manage {product-title} using {ansible}.

.{product-title} components
image::RHDevice_Edge_Overview_1.png[]

.{product-title} layers
image::RHDevice_Edge_Overview_2.png[]

For a non-technical description of {product-title}, see link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/device-edge[Red Hat Device Edge].

[id="device-edge-relnotes_{context}"]
== {product-title} product release notes

The latest release notes for each product that is part of {product-title} are available at the following links:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/{microshift-version}/html/release_notes/index[{microshift-first}]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/9.2_release_notes/index[{op-system-ostree-first}] 9.2 release notes contain details about {op-system-ostree}

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/9.3_release_notes/index[{op-system-ostree-first}] 9.3 release notes contain details about {op-system-ostree}

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/9.4_release_notes/index[{op-system-ostree-first}] 9.4 release notes contain details about {op-system-ostree}

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{ansible-version}/html/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform_release_notes/index[{ansible} Release Notes]

[id="device-edge-compatibility_{context}"]
== {product-title} product release compatibility matrix

{microshift-first} and {op-system} work together as a single solution for device-edge computing. To successfully pair your products, use the verified releases together for each as listed in the following table:

[cols="4",%autowidth]
|===
^|*{op-system-ostree} version*
^|*{microshift} version*
^|*{microshift} release status*
^|*{microshift} supported updates*

^|9.4
^|4.16
^|Generally Available
^|4.16.0&#8594;4.16.z and 4.16&#8594;maximum two minor versions

^|9.2, 9.3
^|4.15
^|Generally Available
^|4.15.0&#8594;4.15.z and 4.15&#8594;future minor version

^|9.2, 9.3
^|4.14
^|Generally Available
^|4.14.0&#8594;4.14.z and 4.14&#8594;4.15

^|9.2
^|4.13
^|Technology Preview
^|None

^|8.7
^|4.12
^|Developer Preview
^|None
|===

[id="device-edge-compatibility-ansible_{context}"]
== {ansible} compatibility

* When {ansible} is used to manage {product-title} deployments, you can use any supported version listed here: link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/ansible-automation-platform#dates[{ansible} Life Cycle].

* To manage an older version of {op-system-first} with {ansible}, see the link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/release_and_maintenance.html#ansible-core-support-matrix[`ansible-core` support matrix] page.

[id="prod-docs-rhde_{context}"]
== {product-title} documentation

For more information about the {product-title} products, see the following documentation:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/{microshift-version}[Red Hat build of MicroShift]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/composing_installing_and_managing_rhel_for_edge_images/index[Composing, installing, and managing RHEL for Edge images]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{ansible-version}[Product Documentation for {ansible}]

//* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/edge_management/2023[Product Documentation for Edge management 2023]
//the RHEL team owns the edge management page; date change was to apply before GA, but no other pages than 2022 exist as of 25Oct2023

[id="upgrade-paths-rhde_{context}"]
== Upgrade paths

For details about {microshift} upgrade paths, see the following documentation:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/{microshift-version}/html/updating/index[{microshift} updates]

Commit message:

OSDOCS-10570: update RHDE matrix for Microshift 4.16

modules/about-rhde.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// scalability_and_performance/managing-bare-metal-hosts.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-rhde_{context}"]
= About {product-title}

{product-title} is for organizations that need small-form-factor edge devices and support for bare metal, virtualized, or containerized applications. {product-title} helps address many of the emerging questions around large-scale edge computing at the device edge by incorporating Kubernetes features in a new, smaller, lighter-weight footprint with an edge-optimized Linux operating system built from the world's leading enterprise Linux platform in {op-system}. You can manage {product-title} using {ansible}.

.{product-title} components
image::RHDevice_Edge_Overview_1.png[]

.{product-title} layers
image::RHDevice_Edge_Overview_2.png[]

For a non-technical description of {product-title}, see link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/device-edge[Red Hat Device Edge].

[id="device-edge-relnotes_{context}"]
== {product-title} product release notes

The latest release notes for each product that is part of {product-title} are available at the following links:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/{microshift-version}/html/release_notes/index[{microshift-first}]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/9.2_release_notes/index[{op-system-ostree-first}] 9.2 release notes contain details about {op-system-ostree}

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/9.3_release_notes/index[{op-system-ostree-first}] 9.3 release notes contain details about {op-system-ostree}

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/9.4_release_notes/index[{op-system-ostree-first}] 9.4 release notes contain details about {op-system-ostree}

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{ansible-version}/html/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform_release_notes/index[{ansible} Release Notes]

[id="device-edge-compatibility_{context}"]
== {product-title} product release compatibility matrix

{op-system-first} and {microshift} work together as a single solution for device-edge computing. You can update each component separately, but the product versions must be compatible. For example, an update of {microshift} from 4.14 to 4.16 requires a {op-system} update. Supported configurations of {product-title} use verified releases for each together as listed in the following table:

[cols="4",%autowidth]
|===
^|*{op-system-ostree} Version(s)*
^|*{microshift} Version*
^|*{microshift} Release Status*
^|*Supported {microshift} Version&#8594;{microshift} Version Updates*

^|9.4
^|4.16
^|Generally Available
^|4.16.0&#8594;4.16.z, 4.14&#8594;4.16 and 4.15&#8594;4.16

^|9.2, 9.3
^|4.15
^|Generally Available
^|4.15.0&#8594;4.15.z, 4.14&#8594;4.15 and 4.15&#8594;4.16

^|9.2, 9.3
^|4.14
^|Generally Available
^|4.14.0&#8594;4.14.z, 4.14&#8594;4.15 and 4.14&#8594;4.16

^|9.2
^|4.13
^|Technology Preview
^|None

^|8.7
^|4.12
^|Developer Preview
^|None
|===

[id="device-edge-compatibility-ansible_{context}"]
== {ansible} compatibility

* When {ansible} is used to manage {product-title} deployments, you can use any supported version listed here: link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/ansible-automation-platform#dates[{ansible} Life Cycle].

* To manage an older version of {op-system-first} with {ansible}, see the link:https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/reference_appendices/release_and_maintenance.html#ansible-core-support-matrix[`ansible-core` support matrix] page.

[id="prod-docs-rhde_{context}"]
== {product-title} documentation

For more information about the {product-title} products, see the following documentation:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/{microshift-version}[Red Hat build of MicroShift]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/{op-system-version-major}/html/composing_installing_and_managing_rhel_for_edge_images/index[Composing, installing, and managing RHEL for Edge images]

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{ansible-version}[Product Documentation for {ansible}]

//* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/edge_management/2023[Product Documentation for Edge management 2023]
//the RHEL team owns the edge management page; date change was to apply before GA, but no other pages than 2022 exist as of 25Oct2023

[id="upgrade-paths-rhde_{context}"]
== Upgrade paths

For details about {microshift} upgrade paths, see the following documentation:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_build_of_microshift/{microshift-version}/html/updating/index[{microshift} updates]
