modules/agent-install-networking.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-with-agent-based-installer/preparing-to-install-with-agent-based-installer.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-networking_{context}"]
= About networking

During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol(DHCP) server or statically by
selecting the below options. If you provide the IP address for the `rendezvousIP` field through the DHCP option, then ensure that it is for the machine's IP address that is going to be used for deployment.
This IP address is required for a node to be identified as ** node 0 **. A ** node 0 ** runs the required services for the Agent-based Installer.

== DHCP

.Preferred method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`

You must specify only the value for the `rendezvousIP` field and `networkConfig` field must be left blank:

.Sample agent-config.yaml.file

[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80 <1>
----
<1> The IP address for ** node 0**.

== Static networking

.. Preferred method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`
+
.Scenario-1

When you specify the value for the `rendezvousIP` and `networkConfig` fields, the `rendezvousIP` field is utilized.

+
.Sample agent-config.yaml.file
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80
                  prefix-length: 23
----

+
.Scenario-2
When you specify the values for the `networkConfig` field, the value from the `interfaces` field is utilized. This is when there is no `rendezvousIP` field.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80 <1>
                  prefix-length: 23 <2>
----
<1> The static IP address of the target bare-metal host.
<2> The static IP address’s subnet prefix for the target bare-metal host.
+
Note that the lowest value IP is utilized for the IP address of ** node 0**.

+
.. Optional method: ZTP manifests

+
The optional method of the ZTP custom resources comprises 6 custom resources; you can configure static IPs in the `NMStateConfig.yaml.file`.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: agent-install.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: NMStateConfig
metadata:
  name: master-0
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
  labels:
    cluster0-nmstate-label-name: cluster0-nmstate-label-value
spec:
  config:
    interfaces:
      - name: eth0
        type: ethernet
        state: up
        mac-address: 52:54:01:aa:aa:a1
        ipv4:
          enabled: true
          address:
            - ip: 192.168.122.2 <1>
              prefix-length: 23 <2>
          dhcp: false
    dns-resolver:
      config:
        server:
          - 192.168.122.1 <3>
    routes:
      config:
        - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
          next-hop-address: 192.168.122.1 <4>
          next-hop-interface: eth0
          table-id: 254
  interfaces:
    - name: "eth0" <5>
      macAddress: 52:54:01:aa:aa:a1 <6>
----
<1> The static IP address of the target bare-metal host.
<2> The static IP address’s subnet prefix for the target bare-metal host.
<3> The DNS server for the target bare-metal host.
<4> Next hop address for the node traffic. This must be in the same subnet as the IP address set for the specified interface.
<5> The `interfaces` field must have the same name.
<6> The mac address of the interface.
+
Note that the lowest value IP is utilized for the IP address of ** node 0**.

Commit message:

Agent installer: avoid using 'node 0' terminology
Within the team we refer to the host running the assisted service as
'Node 0', but the only user-facing reference to it is the 'rendezvousIP'
field in the agent-config. For documentation purposes it's probably
better to refer to this as the 'rendezvous host' to link the concepts
together.

modules/agent-install-networking.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-with-agent-based-installer/preparing-to-install-with-agent-based-installer.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-networking_{context}"]
= About networking

During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol(DHCP) server or statically by
selecting the below options. If you provide the IP address for the `rendezvousIP` field through the DHCP option, then ensure that it is for the machine's IP address that is going to be used for deployment.
This IP address is required for a node to be identified as the rendezvous host. The rendezvous host runs the required services for the Agent-based Installer.

== DHCP

.Preferred method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`

You must specify only the value for the `rendezvousIP` field and `networkConfig` field must be left blank:

.Sample agent-config.yaml.file

[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80 <1>
----
<1> The IP address for the rendezvous host.

== Static networking

.. Preferred method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`
+
.Scenario-1

When you specify the value for the `rendezvousIP` and `networkConfig` fields, the `rendezvousIP` field is utilized.

+
.Sample agent-config.yaml.file
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80
                  prefix-length: 23
----

+
.Scenario-2
When you specify the values for the `networkConfig` field, the value from the `interfaces` field is utilized. This is when there is no `rendezvousIP` field.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80 <1>
                  prefix-length: 23 <2>
----
<1> The static IP address of the target bare-metal host.
<2> The static IP address’s subnet prefix for the target bare-metal host.
+
Note that the lowest value IP is used as the rendezvous IP if no `rendezvousIP` is specified explicitly.

+
.. Optional method: ZTP manifests

+
The optional method of the ZTP custom resources comprises 6 custom resources; you can configure static IPs in the `NMStateConfig.yaml.file`.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: agent-install.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: NMStateConfig
metadata:
  name: master-0
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
  labels:
    cluster0-nmstate-label-name: cluster0-nmstate-label-value
spec:
  config:
    interfaces:
      - name: eth0
        type: ethernet
        state: up
        mac-address: 52:54:01:aa:aa:a1
        ipv4:
          enabled: true
          address:
            - ip: 192.168.122.2 <1>
              prefix-length: 23 <2>
          dhcp: false
    dns-resolver:
      config:
        server:
          - 192.168.122.1 <3>
    routes:
      config:
        - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
          next-hop-address: 192.168.122.1 <4>
          next-hop-interface: eth0
          table-id: 254
  interfaces:
    - name: "eth0" <5>
      macAddress: 52:54:01:aa:aa:a1 <6>
----
<1> The static IP address of the target bare-metal host.
<2> The static IP address’s subnet prefix for the target bare-metal host.
<3> The DNS server for the target bare-metal host.
<4> Next hop address for the node traffic. This must be in the same subnet as the IP address set for the specified interface.
<5> The `interfaces` field must have the same name.
<6> The mac address of the interface.
+
Note that the lowest value IP is used as the rendezvous IP.
