modules/cco-ccoctl-creating-individually.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cco-ccoctl-creating-individually_{context}"]
= Creating AWS resources individually

If you need to review the JSON files that the `ccoctl` tool creates before modifying AWS resources, or if the process the `ccoctl` tool uses to create AWS resources automatically does not meet the requirements of your organization, you can create the AWS resources individually. For example, this option might be useful for an organization that shares the responsibility for creating these resources among different users or departments.

Otherwise, you can use the `ccoctl aws create-all` command to create the AWS resources automatically.

//to-do if possible: xref to modules/cco-ccoctl-creating-at-once.adoc for `create the AWS resources automatically`

[NOTE]
====
By default, `ccoctl` creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the `--output-dir` flag. This procedure uses `<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>` to refer to this directory.

Some `ccoctl` commands make AWS API calls to create or modify AWS resources. You can use the `--dry-run` flag to avoid making API calls. Using this flag creates JSON files on the local file system instead. You can review and modify the JSON files and then apply them with the AWS CLI tool using the `--cli-input-json` parameters.
====

.Prerequisites

* Extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

.Procedure

. Generate the public and private RSA key files that are used to set up the OpenID Connect provider for the cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-key-pair
----
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
2021/04/13 11:01:02 Generating RSA keypair
2021/04/13 11:01:03 Writing private key to /<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/serviceaccount-signer.private
2021/04/13 11:01:03 Writing public key to /<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/serviceaccount-signer.public
2021/04/13 11:01:03 Copying signing key for use by installer
----
+
where `serviceaccount-signer.private` and `serviceaccount-signer.public` are the generated key files.
+
This command also creates a private key that the cluster requires during installation in `/<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/tls/bound-service-account-signing-key.key`.

. Create an OpenID Connect identity provider and S3 bucket on AWS:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-identity-provider \
--name=<name> \
--region=<aws_region> \
--public-key-file=<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/serviceaccount-signer.public
----
+
where:
+
--
** `<name>` is the name used to tag any cloud resources that are created for tracking.
** `<aws-region>` is the AWS region in which cloud resources will be created.
** `<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>` is the path to the public key file that the `ccoctl aws create-key-pair` command generated.
--
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
2021/04/13 11:16:09 Bucket <name>-oidc created
2021/04/13 11:16:10 OpenID Connect discovery document in the S3 bucket <name>-oidc at .well-known/openid-configuration updated
2021/04/13 11:16:10 Reading public key
2021/04/13 11:16:10 JSON web key set (JWKS) in the S3 bucket <name>-oidc at keys.json updated
2021/04/13 11:16:18 Identity Provider created with ARN: arn:aws:iam::<aws_account_id>:oidc-provider/<name>-oidc.s3.<aws_region>.amazonaws.com
----
+
where `openid-configuration` is a discovery document and `keys.json` is a JSON web key set file.
+
This command also creates a YAML configuration file in `/<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests/cluster-authentication-02-config.yaml`. This file sets the issuer URL field for the service account tokens that the cluster generates, so that the AWS IAM identity provider trusts the tokens.

. Create IAM roles for each component in the cluster.

.. Extract the list of `CredentialsRequest` objects from the {product-title} release image:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release extract --credentials-requests \
--cloud=aws \
--to=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests <1>
--from=quay.io/<path_to>/ocp-release:<version>
----
+
<1> `credrequests` is the directory where the list of `CredentialsRequest` objects is stored. This command creates the directory if it does not exist.

.. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process all `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `credrequests` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
--name=<name> \
--region=<aws_region> \
--credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests \
--identity-provider-arn=arn:aws:iam::<aws_account_id>:oidc-provider/<name>-oidc.s3.<aws_region>.amazonaws.com
----
+
[NOTE]
====
For AWS environments that use alternative IAM API endpoints, such as GovCloud, you must also specify your region with the `--region` parameter.

If your cluster uses Technology Preview features that are enabled by the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set, you must include the `--enable-tech-preview` parameter.
====
+
For each `CredentialsRequest` object, `ccoctl` creates an IAM role with a trust policy that is tied to the specified OIDC identity provider, and a permissions policy as defined in each `CredentialsRequest` object from the {product-title} release image.

.Verification

* To verify that the {product-title} secrets are created, list the files in the `<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ll <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests
----
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
total 24
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 161 Apr 13 11:42 cluster-authentication-02-config.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 379 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-cloud-credential-operator-cloud-credential-operator-iam-ro-creds-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 353 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-cluster-csi-drivers-ebs-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 355 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-image-registry-installer-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 339 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-ingress-operator-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 337 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-machine-api-aws-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
----

You can verify that the IAM roles are created by querying AWS. For more information, refer to AWS documentation on listing IAM roles.

Commit message:

[OCPBUGS-3153]: Update ccoctl docs for optional components

modules/cco-ccoctl-creating-individually.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cco-ccoctl-creating-individually_{context}"]
= Creating AWS resources individually

If you need to review the JSON files that the `ccoctl` tool creates before modifying AWS resources, or if the process the `ccoctl` tool uses to create AWS resources automatically does not meet the requirements of your organization, you can create the AWS resources individually. For example, this option might be useful for an organization that shares the responsibility for creating these resources among different users or departments.

Otherwise, you can use the `ccoctl aws create-all` command to create the AWS resources automatically.

//to-do if possible: xref to modules/cco-ccoctl-creating-at-once.adoc for `create the AWS resources automatically`

[NOTE]
====
By default, `ccoctl` creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the `--output-dir` flag. This procedure uses `<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>` to refer to this directory.

Some `ccoctl` commands make AWS API calls to create or modify AWS resources. You can use the `--dry-run` flag to avoid making API calls. Using this flag creates JSON files on the local file system instead. You can review and modify the JSON files and then apply them with the AWS CLI tool using the `--cli-input-json` parameters.
====

.Prerequisites

* Extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

.Procedure

. Generate the public and private RSA key files that are used to set up the OpenID Connect provider for the cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-key-pair
----
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
2021/04/13 11:01:02 Generating RSA keypair
2021/04/13 11:01:03 Writing private key to /<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/serviceaccount-signer.private
2021/04/13 11:01:03 Writing public key to /<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/serviceaccount-signer.public
2021/04/13 11:01:03 Copying signing key for use by installer
----
+
where `serviceaccount-signer.private` and `serviceaccount-signer.public` are the generated key files.
+
This command also creates a private key that the cluster requires during installation in `/<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/tls/bound-service-account-signing-key.key`.

. Create an OpenID Connect identity provider and S3 bucket on AWS:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-identity-provider \
--name=<name> \
--region=<aws_region> \
--public-key-file=<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/serviceaccount-signer.public
----
+
where:
+
--
** `<name>` is the name used to tag any cloud resources that are created for tracking.
** `<aws-region>` is the AWS region in which cloud resources will be created.
** `<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>` is the path to the public key file that the `ccoctl aws create-key-pair` command generated.
--
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
2021/04/13 11:16:09 Bucket <name>-oidc created
2021/04/13 11:16:10 OpenID Connect discovery document in the S3 bucket <name>-oidc at .well-known/openid-configuration updated
2021/04/13 11:16:10 Reading public key
2021/04/13 11:16:10 JSON web key set (JWKS) in the S3 bucket <name>-oidc at keys.json updated
2021/04/13 11:16:18 Identity Provider created with ARN: arn:aws:iam::<aws_account_id>:oidc-provider/<name>-oidc.s3.<aws_region>.amazonaws.com
----
+
where `openid-configuration` is a discovery document and `keys.json` is a JSON web key set file.
+
This command also creates a YAML configuration file in `/<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests/cluster-authentication-02-config.yaml`. This file sets the issuer URL field for the service account tokens that the cluster generates, so that the AWS IAM identity provider trusts the tokens.

. Create IAM roles for each component in the cluster.

.. Extract the list of `CredentialsRequest` objects from the {product-title} release image:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release extract --credentials-requests \
--cloud=aws \
--to=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests <1>
--from=quay.io/<path_to>/ocp-release:<version>
----
+
<1> `credrequests` is the directory where the list of `CredentialsRequest` objects is stored. This command creates the directory if it does not exist.

.. If your cluster uses cluster capabilities to disable one or more optional components, delete the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any disabled components.
+
.Example `credrequests` directory contents for {product-title} 4.12 on AWS
+
[source,terminal]
----
0000_30_machine-api-operator_00_credentials-request.yaml <1>
0000_50_cloud-credential-operator_05-iam-ro-credentialsrequest.yaml <2>
0000_50_cluster-image-registry-operator_01-registry-credentials-request.yaml <3>
0000_50_cluster-ingress-operator_00-ingress-credentials-request.yaml <4>
0000_50_cluster-network-operator_02-cncc-credentials.yaml <5>
0000_50_cluster-storage-operator_03_credentials_request_aws.yaml <6>
----
+
<1> The Machine API Operator CR is required. 
<2> The Cloud Credential Operator CR is required.
<3> The Image Registry Operator CR is required.
<4> The Ingress Operator CR is required.
<5> The Network Operator CR is required.
<6> The Storage Operator CR is an optional component and might be disabled in your cluster.

.. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process all `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `credrequests` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
--name=<name> \
--region=<aws_region> \
--credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests \
--identity-provider-arn=arn:aws:iam::<aws_account_id>:oidc-provider/<name>-oidc.s3.<aws_region>.amazonaws.com
----
+
[NOTE]
====
For AWS environments that use alternative IAM API endpoints, such as GovCloud, you must also specify your region with the `--region` parameter.

If your cluster uses Technology Preview features that are enabled by the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set, you must include the `--enable-tech-preview` parameter.
====
+
For each `CredentialsRequest` object, `ccoctl` creates an IAM role with a trust policy that is tied to the specified OIDC identity provider, and a permissions policy as defined in each `CredentialsRequest` object from the {product-title} release image.

.Verification

* To verify that the {product-title} secrets are created, list the files in the `<path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ll <path_to_ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests
----
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
total 24
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 161 Apr 13 11:42 cluster-authentication-02-config.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 379 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-cloud-credential-operator-cloud-credential-operator-iam-ro-creds-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 353 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-cluster-csi-drivers-ebs-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 355 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-image-registry-installer-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 339 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-ingress-operator-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
-rw-------. 1 <user> <user> 337 Apr 13 11:59 openshift-machine-api-aws-cloud-credentials-credentials.yaml
----

You can verify that the IAM roles are created by querying AWS. For more information, refer to AWS documentation on listing IAM roles.
