modules/cluster-logging-about-elasticsearch.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-about-elasticsearch_{context}"]
= About the logstore 

{product-title} uses link:https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch[Elasticsearch (ES)] to organize the log data from Fluentd into datastores, or _indices_. 

Elasticsearch subdivides each index into multiple pieces called _shards_, which it spreads across a set of Elasticsearch nodes in an Elasticsearch cluster.
You can configure Elasticsearch to make copies of the shards, called _replicas_. Elasticsearch also spreads these replicas across
the Elasticsearch nodes. The *ClusterLogging* Custom Resource allows you to specify the replication policy in the Custom Resource Definition (CRD) to provide data redundancy and resilience to failure.

[NOTE]
====
The number of primary shards for the index templates is equal to the number of Elasticsearch data nodes.
====

The Cluster Logging Operator and companion Elasticsearch Operator ensure that each Elasticsearch node is deployed using a unique Deployment that includes its own storage volume.
You can use a Cluster Logging Custom Resource (CR) to increase the number of Elasticsearch nodes.
Refer to
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/hardware.html[Elastic's
documentation] for considerations involved in choosing storage and
network location as directed below.

[NOTE]
====
A highly-available Elasticsearch environment requires at least three Elasticsearch nodes,
each on a different host.
====

For more information, see https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch[Elasticsearch (ES)].

Commit message:

Added role based access information

modules/cluster-logging-about-elasticsearch.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-about-elasticsearch_{context}"]
= About the logstore 

{product-title} uses link:https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch[Elasticsearch (ES)] to organize the log data from Fluentd into datastores, or _indices_. 

Elasticsearch subdivides each index into multiple pieces called _shards_, which it spreads across a set of Elasticsearch nodes in an Elasticsearch cluster.
You can configure Elasticsearch to make copies of the shards, called _replicas_. Elasticsearch also spreads these replicas across
the Elasticsearch nodes. The *ClusterLogging* Custom Resource allows you to specify the replication policy in the Custom Resource Definition (CRD) to provide data redundancy and resilience to failure.

[NOTE]
====
The number of primary shards for the index templates is equal to the number of Elasticsearch data nodes.
====

The Cluster Logging Operator and companion Elasticsearch Operator ensure that each Elasticsearch node is deployed using a unique Deployment that includes its own storage volume.
You can use a Cluster Logging Custom Resource (CR) to increase the number of Elasticsearch nodes.
Refer to
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/hardware.html[Elastic's
documentation] for considerations involved in choosing storage and
network location as directed below.

[NOTE]
====
A highly-available Elasticsearch environment requires at least three Elasticsearch nodes,
each on a different host.
====

Role based access control applied on the elastic search indices enables the controlled access of the logs to the developers. Access to the indexes with the format project.{project_name}.{project_uuid}.* is restricted based on the permissions of the user in the specific project.

For more information, see https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch[Elasticsearch (ES)].
