modules/cluster-logging-kibana-visualize.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging-kibana.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-kibana-visualize_{context}"]
= Installing the Kibana Visualize tool

Kibana's *Visualize* tab enables you to create visualizations and dashboards for
monitoring container logs, allowing administrator users (`cluster-admin` or
`cluster-reader`) to view logs by deployment, namespace, pod, and container.

.Procedure

To load dashboards and other Kibana UI objects: 

. If necessary, get the Kibana route, which is created by default upon installation
of the Cluster Logging Operator:
+
----
$ oc get routes -n openshift-logging

NAMESPACE                  NAME                       HOST/PORT                                                            PATH     SERVICES                   PORT    TERMINATION          WILDCARD
openshift-logging          kibana                     kibana-openshift-logging.apps.openshift.com                                   kibana                     <all>   reencrypt/Redirect   None
----

. Get the name of your Elasticsearch pods.
+
----
$ oc get pods -l component=elasticsearch

NAME                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-1-dcd6c4c7c-jpw6k    2/2     Running   0          22h
elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-2-f799564cb-l9mj7    2/2     Running   0          22h
elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-3-585968dc68-k7kjr   2/2     Running   0          22h
----

. Create the necessary per-user configuration that this procedure requires: 
  
.. Log in to  the Kibana dashboard as the user you want to add the dashboards to. 
+
----
https://kibana-openshift-logging.apps.openshift.com <1>
----
<1> Where the URL is Kibana route.

.. If the *Authorize Access* page appears, select all permissions and click *Allow selected permissions*.

.. Log out of the Kibana dashboard.
 
. Run the following command from the project where the pod is located using the 
name of any of your Elastiscearch pods:
+
----
$ oc exec <es-pod> -- es_load_kibana_ui_objects <user-name>
----
+
For example:
+
----
$ oc exec elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-1-dcd6c4c7c-jpw6k -- es_load_kibana_ui_objects <user-name>
----

[NOTE]
====
The metadata of the kibana objects like visualizations, dashboards etc are stored in elastic search with the index format .kibana.{user_hash} where user_hash can be obtained by the command - userhash=$(echo -n $username | sha1sum | awk '{print $1}')

Any custom dashboard can be imported for a particular user either by using the import/export feature or by inserting the metadata on to the elastic search index using the curl command.
====

Commit message:

Incoperated review comment - changed elasticsearch to one word, added the behavior when share_ops is used

modules/cluster-logging-kibana-visualize.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging-kibana.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-kibana-visualize_{context}"]
= Installing the Kibana Visualize tool

Kibana's *Visualize* tab enables you to create visualizations and dashboards for
monitoring container logs, allowing administrator users (`cluster-admin` or
`cluster-reader`) to view logs by deployment, namespace, pod, and container.

.Procedure

To load dashboards and other Kibana UI objects: 

. If necessary, get the Kibana route, which is created by default upon installation
of the Cluster Logging Operator:
+
----
$ oc get routes -n openshift-logging

NAMESPACE                  NAME                       HOST/PORT                                                            PATH     SERVICES                   PORT    TERMINATION          WILDCARD
openshift-logging          kibana                     kibana-openshift-logging.apps.openshift.com                                   kibana                     <all>   reencrypt/Redirect   None
----

. Get the name of your Elasticsearch pods.
+
----
$ oc get pods -l component=elasticsearch

NAME                                            READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-1-dcd6c4c7c-jpw6k    2/2     Running   0          22h
elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-2-f799564cb-l9mj7    2/2     Running   0          22h
elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-3-585968dc68-k7kjr   2/2     Running   0          22h
----

. Create the necessary per-user configuration that this procedure requires: 
  
.. Log in to  the Kibana dashboard as the user you want to add the dashboards to. 
+
----
https://kibana-openshift-logging.apps.openshift.com <1>
----
<1> Where the URL is Kibana route.

.. If the *Authorize Access* page appears, select all permissions and click *Allow selected permissions*.

.. Log out of the Kibana dashboard.
 
. Run the following command from the project where the pod is located using the 
name of any of your Elastiscearch pods:
+
----
$ oc exec <es-pod> -- es_load_kibana_ui_objects <user-name>
----
+
For example:
+
----
$ oc exec elasticsearch-cdm-5ceex6ts-1-dcd6c4c7c-jpw6k -- es_load_kibana_ui_objects <user-name>
----

[NOTE]
====
The metadata of the kibana objects like visualizations, dashboards etc are stored in elasticsearch with the index format .kibana.{user_hash} where user_hash can be obtained by the command - userhash=$(echo -n $username | sha1sum | awk '{print $1}')
if share_ops are used, all users with cluster admin roles share the index. This metadata of the kibana objects is saved to .kibana index.

Any custom dashboard can be imported for a particular user either by using the import/export feature or by inserting the metadata on to the elastic search index using the curl command.
====
