modules/cluster-logging-systemd-scaling.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/config/cluster-logging-systemd

[id="cluster-logging-systemd-scaling_{context}"]
= Configuring systemd-journald for OpenShift Logging

As you scale up your project, the default logging environment might need some
adjustments.

For example, if you are missing logs, you might have to increase the rate limits for journald.
You can adjust the number of messages to retain for a specified period of time to ensure that
OpenShift Logging does not use excessive resources without dropping logs.

You can also determine if you want the logs compressed, how long to retain logs, how or if the logs are stored,
and other settings.

.Procedure

. Create a `journald.conf` file with the required settings:
+
[source,terminal]
----
Compress=yes <1>
ForwardToConsole=no <2>
ForwardToSyslog=no
MaxRetentionSec=1month <3>
RateLimitBurst=10000 <4>
RateLimitIntervalSec=30s
Storage=persistent <5>
SyncIntervalSec=1s <6>
SystemMaxUse=8g <7>
SystemKeepFree=20% <8>
SystemMaxFileSize=10M <9>
----
+
<1> Specify whether you want logs compressed before they are written to the file system.
Specify `yes` to compress the message or `no` to not compress. The default is `yes`.
<2> Configure whether to forward log messages. Defaults to `no` for each. Specify:
* `ForwardToConsole` to forward logs to the system console.
* `ForwardToKsmg` to forward logs to the kernel log buffer.
* `ForwardToSyslog` to forward to a syslog daemon.
* `ForwardToWall` to forward messages as wall messages to all logged-in users.
<3> Specify the maximum time to store journal entries. Enter a number to specify seconds. Or
include a unit: "year", "month", "week", "day", "h" or "m". Enter `0` to disable. The default is `1month`.
<4> Configure rate limiting. If, during the time interval defined by `RateLimitIntervalSec`, more logs than specified in `RateLimitBurst`
are received, all further messages within the interval are dropped until the interval is over. It is recommended to set
`RateLimitIntervalSec=30s` and `RateLimitBurst=10000`, which are the defaults.
<5> Specify how logs are stored. The default is `persistent`:
* `volatile` to store logs in memory in `/var/log/journal/`.
* `persistent` to store logs to disk  in `/var/log/journal/`. systemd creates the directory if it does not exist.
* `auto` to store logs in  in `/var/log/journal/` if the directory exists. If it does not exist, systemd temporarily stores logs in `/run/systemd/journal`.
* `none` to not store logs. systemd drops all logs.
<6> Specify the timeout before synchronizing journal files to disk for *ERR*, *WARNING*, *NOTICE*, *INFO*, and *DEBUG* logs.
systemd immediately syncs after receiving a *CRIT*, *ALERT*, or *EMERG* log. The default is `1s`.
<7> Specify the maximum size the journal can use. The default is `8g`.
<8> Specify how much disk space systemd must leave free. The default is `20%`.
<9> Specify the maximum size for individual journal files stored persistently in `/var/log/journal`. The default is `10M`.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are removing the rate limit, you might see increased CPU utilization on the
system logging daemons as it processes any messages that would have previously
been throttled.
====
+
For more information on systemd settings, see link:https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/journald.conf.html[https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/journald.conf.html]. The default settings listed on that page might not apply to {product-title}.
+
// Defaults from https://github.com/openshift/openshift-ansible/pull/3753/files#diff-40b7a7231e77d95ca6009dc9bcc0f470R33-R34

. Convert the `journal.conf` file to base64:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export jrnl_cnf=$( cat /journald.conf | base64 -w0 )
----

. Create a `MachineConfig` object that includes the `jrnl_cnf` variable, which is the encoded contents of the `journald.conf` you created in the previous step.
+
For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat > /tmp/40-worker-custom-journald.yaml <<EOF
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  name: 50-corp-journald
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.1.0
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,${jrnl_cnf}
        mode: 0644 <1>
        overwrite: true
        path: /etc/systemd/journald.conf <2>
EOF
----
<1> Set the permissions for the `journal.conf` file. It is recommended to set `0644` permissions.
<2> Specify the path to the base64-encoded `journal.conf` file.

. Create the machine config. For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f /tmp/40-worker-custom-journald.yaml
----
+
The controller detects the new `MachineConfig` object and generates a new `rendered-worker-<hash>` version.

. Monitor the status of the rollout of the new rendered configuration to each node:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe machineconfigpool/worker
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         worker
Namespace:
Labels:       machineconfiguration.openshift.io/mco-built-in=
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
Kind:         MachineConfigPool

...

Conditions:
  Message:
  Reason:                All nodes are updating to rendered-worker-913514517bcea7c93bd446f4830bc64e
----

Commit message:

BZ1882396: Modified content for systemd example
BZ1882396: Modified content for systemd example

BZ1882396: Modified content for systemd example

BZ1882396: Modified content for systemd example

BZ1882396: Modified content for systemd example

BZ1882396: Modified content for systemd example

Changes as per the attached PR

Changes as per the attached PR

Changes as per the attached PR

Changes as per the attached PR

Changes as per the attached PR

Implemented QE review comments

Changed wordings

Updated as per the style guidelines

Updated as per the style guidelines

Updated as per the style guidelines

Implemented peer review comments

Implemented peer review comments

Changed version after QE verification

Changed version after QE verification

Removed parantheses and changed filename

Removed parantheses and changed filename

Changed name field

Implemented review comments

modules/cluster-logging-systemd-scaling.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/config/cluster-logging-systemd

[id="cluster-logging-systemd-scaling_{context}"]
= Configuring systemd-journald for OpenShift Logging

As you scale up your project, the default logging environment might need some
adjustments.

For example, if you are missing logs, you might have to increase the rate limits for journald.
You can adjust the number of messages to retain for a specified period of time to ensure that
OpenShift Logging does not use excessive resources without dropping logs.

You can also determine if you want the logs compressed, how long to retain logs, how or if the logs are stored,
and other settings.

.Procedure

. Create a `journald.conf` file with the required settings:
+
[source,terminal]
----
Compress=yes <1>
ForwardToConsole=no <2>
ForwardToSyslog=no
MaxRetentionSec=1month <3>
RateLimitBurst=10000 <4>
RateLimitIntervalSec=30s
Storage=persistent <5>
SyncIntervalSec=1s <6>
SystemMaxUse=8g <7>
SystemKeepFree=20% <8>
SystemMaxFileSize=10M <9>
----
<1> Specify whether you want logs compressed before they are written to the file system.
Specify `yes` to compress the message or `no` to not compress. The default is `yes`.
<2> Configure whether to forward log messages. Defaults to `no` for each. Specify:
* `ForwardToConsole` to forward logs to the system console.
* `ForwardToKsmg` to forward logs to the kernel log buffer.
* `ForwardToSyslog` to forward to a syslog daemon.
* `ForwardToWall` to forward messages as wall messages to all logged-in users.
<3> Specify the maximum time to store journal entries. Enter a number to specify seconds. Or
include a unit: "year", "month", "week", "day", "h" or "m". Enter `0` to disable. The default is `1month`.
<4> Configure rate limiting. If, during the time interval defined by `RateLimitIntervalSec`, more logs than specified in `RateLimitBurst`
are received, all further messages within the interval are dropped until the interval is over. It is recommended to set
`RateLimitIntervalSec=30s` and `RateLimitBurst=10000`, which are the defaults.
<5> Specify how logs are stored. The default is `persistent`:
* `volatile` to store logs in memory in `/var/log/journal/`.
* `persistent` to store logs to disk  in `/var/log/journal/`. systemd creates the directory if it does not exist.
* `auto` to store logs in  in `/var/log/journal/` if the directory exists. If it does not exist, systemd temporarily stores logs in `/run/systemd/journal`.
* `none` to not store logs. systemd drops all logs.
<6> Specify the timeout before synchronizing journal files to disk for *ERR*, *WARNING*, *NOTICE*, *INFO*, and *DEBUG* logs.
systemd immediately syncs after receiving a *CRIT*, *ALERT*, or *EMERG* log. The default is `1s`.
<7> Specify the maximum size the journal can use. The default is `8g`.
<8> Specify how much disk space systemd must leave free. The default is `20%`.
<9> Specify the maximum size for individual journal files stored persistently in `/var/log/journal`. The default is `10M`.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are removing the rate limit, you might see increased CPU utilization on the
system logging daemons as it processes any messages that would have previously
been throttled.
====
+
For more information on systemd settings, see link:https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/journald.conf.html[https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/journald.conf.html]. The default settings listed on that page might not apply to {product-title}.
+
// Defaults from https://github.com/openshift/openshift-ansible/pull/3753/files#diff-40b7a7231e77d95ca6009dc9bcc0f470R33-R34

. Convert the `journal.conf` file to base64 and store it in a variable that is named `jrnl_cnf` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export jrnl_cnf=$( cat journald.conf | base64 -w0 )
----

. Create a `MachineConfig` object that includes the `jrnl_cnf` variable, which was created in the previous step. The following sample command creates a `MachineConfig` object for the  worker:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat << EOF > ./40-worker-custom-journald.yaml <1>
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker <2>
  name: 40-worker-custom-journald <3>
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      config: {}
      security:
        tls: {}
      timeouts: {}
      version: 3.2.0
    networkd: {}
    passwd: {}
    storage:
      files:
      - contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,${jrnl_cnf} <4>
          verification: {}
        filesystem: root
        mode: 0644 <5>
        path: /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/custom.conf
  osImageURL: ""
EOF
----
<1> Optional: For control plane (also known as master) node, you can provide the file name as `40-master-custom-journald.yaml`.
<2> Optional: For control plane (also known as master) node, provide the role as `master`.
<3> Optional: For control plane (also known as master) node, you can provide the name as `40-master-custom-journald`.
<4> Optional: To include a static copy of the parameters in the `journald.conf` file, replace `${jrnl_cnf}` with the output of the `echo $jrnl_cnf` command.
<5> Set the permissions for the `journal.conf` file. It is recommended to set `0644` permissions.

. Create the machine config by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <file_name>.yaml
----
+
The controller detects the new `MachineConfig` object and generates a new `rendered-worker-<hash>` version.

. Monitor the status of the rollout of the new rendered configuration to each node by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe machineconfigpool/<node> <1>
----
<1> Specify the node as `master` or `worker`.
+
.Example output for worker
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         worker
Namespace:
Labels:       machineconfiguration.openshift.io/mco-built-in=
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
Kind:         MachineConfigPool

...

Conditions:
  Message:
  Reason:                All nodes are updating to rendered-worker-913514517bcea7c93bd446f4830bc64e
----
