modules/cnf-intel-acc100-optimize-data-plane.adoc, before:

// CNF-1498 Validate and Document Intel SRO and SRIOV FEC Operator
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *cnf-optimize-data-performance-n3000.adoc

[id="cnf-understanding-intel-fpga-n3000-vran-dedicated-accelerator-acc100_{context}"]
= Understanding the vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100

Hardware accelerators cards from Intel® accelerates 4G/LTE and 5G Virtualized Radio Access Networks (vRAN) workloads, increasing in turn the overall compute capacity of a commercial, off-the-shelf platform.

The vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100, based on the Intel eASIC technology offloads and accelerates the computing-intensive process of forward error correction (FEC) for 4G/LTE and 5G technology, freeing up processing power.
Intel eASIC™ devices are structured ASICs, an intermediate technology between field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and standard Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs).

These devices provide lower unitcost and lower power compared to FPGAs and faster time to market and lower non-recurring engineering cost compared to standard- ASICs.

Intel vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100 support on OpenShift is facilitated with the OpenNESS Operator for Wireless FEC Accelerators.

Commit message:

TelcoDocs:88 making changes to acc100 in line with feedback on the 4.6 ticket telco_docs 82

modules/cnf-intel-acc100-optimize-data-plane.adoc, after:

// CNF-1498 Validate and Document Intel SRO and SRIOV FEC Operator
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *cnf-optimize-data-performance-n3000.adoc

[id="cnf-understanding-intel-fpga-n3000-vran-dedicated-accelerator-acc100_{context}"]
= Understanding the vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100

Hardware accelerator cards from Intel accelerate 4G/LTE and 5G Virtualized Radio Access Networks (vRAN) workloads. This in turn increases the overall compute capacity of a commercial, off-the-shelf platform.

The vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100, based on Intel eASIC technology is designed to offload and accelerate the computing-intensive process of forward error correction (FEC) for 4G/LTE and 5G technology, freeing up processing power.
Intel eASIC devices are structured ASICs, an intermediate technology between FPGAs and standard application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs).

Intel vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100 support on {product-title} uses one Operator:

* OpenNESS Operator for Wireless FEC Accelerators
