modules/cnv-subscribing-to-hco-catalog.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cnv/cnv_install/installing-container-native-virtualization.adoc

[id="cnv-subscribing-to-hco-catalog_{context}"]
= Subscribing to the KubeVirt HyperConverged Cluster Operator catalog

Before you install {CNVProductName}, subscribe to the
*KubeVirt HyperConverged Cluster Operator* catalog from
the {product-title} web console. Subscribing gives the `openshift-cnv`
namespace access to the {CNVProductName} Operators.

.Prerequisites

* Create a namespace that is named `openshift-cnv`.

.Procedure

. Open a browser window and log in to the {product-title} web console.

. Navigate to the *Operators* → *OperatorHub* page.

. Locate the *KubeVirt HyperConverged Cluster Operator* and then select it.

. Read the information about the Operator and click *Install*.

. On the *Create Operator Subscription* page:
.. Select *A specific namespace on the cluster* from the *Installation Mode*
list and choose the `openshift-cnv` namespace.
+
[WARNING]
====
* *All namespaces on the cluster (default)* installs the Operator in the default
`openshift-operators` namespace to watch and be made available to all namespaces
in the cluster. This option is not supported for use with {CNVProductName}.
You must only install the Operator in the `openshift-cnv` namespace.
* *A specific namespace on the cluster* allows you to choose a specific, single
namespace in which to install the Operator. The Operator will only watch and be
made available for use in this single namespace.
====
.. Select *2.1* from the list of available *Update Channel* options.
.. For *Approval Strategy*, ensure that *Automatic*, which is the default value,
is selected.
{CNVProductNameStart} automatically updates when a new z-stream release is
available.

. Click *Subscribe* to make the Operator available to the selected namespaces on
this {product-title} cluster.

Commit message:

cnv: point the product, not the community operator
UNTESTED

Searching for "KubeVirt HyperConverged Cluster Operator" leads to an old
unsupportable community operator. "Container-native virtualization
Operator" is the name we should direct customers to use.

Signed-off-by: Dan Kenigsberg <danken@redhat.com>

modules/cnv-subscribing-to-hco-catalog.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cnv/cnv_install/installing-container-native-virtualization.adoc

[id="cnv-subscribing-to-hco-catalog_{context}"]
= Subscribing to the Container-native virtualization Operator catalog

Before you install {CNVProductName}, subscribe to the
*Container-native virtualization Operator* catalog from
the {product-title} web console. Subscribing gives the `openshift-cnv`
namespace access to the {CNVProductName} Operators.

.Prerequisites

* Create a namespace that is named `openshift-cnv`.

.Procedure

. Open a browser window and log in to the {product-title} web console.

. Navigate to the *Operators* → *OperatorHub* page.

. Locate the *Container-native virtualization Operator* and then select it.

. Read the information about the Operator and click *Install*.

. On the *Create Operator Subscription* page:
.. Select *A specific namespace on the cluster* from the *Installation Mode*
list and choose the `openshift-cnv` namespace.
+
[WARNING]
====
* *All namespaces on the cluster (default)* installs the Operator in the default
`openshift-operators` namespace to watch and be made available to all namespaces
in the cluster. This option is not supported for use with {CNVProductName}.
You must only install the Operator in the `openshift-cnv` namespace.
* *A specific namespace on the cluster* allows you to choose a specific, single
namespace in which to install the Operator. The Operator will only watch and be
made available for use in this single namespace.
====
.. Select *2.1* from the list of available *Update Channel* options.
.. For *Approval Strategy*, ensure that *Automatic*, which is the default value,
is selected.
{CNVProductNameStart} automatically updates when a new z-stream release is
available.

. Click *Subscribe* to make the Operator available to the selected namespaces on
this {product-title} cluster.
