modules/cnv-configuring-selinux-hpp-on-rhcos8.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cnv/cnv_virtual_machines/cnv_virtual_disks/cnv-configuring-local-storage-for-vms.adoc

[id="cnv-configuring-selinux-hpp-on-rhcos8_{context}"]
= Configuring SELinux for the hostpath provisioner on Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS 8

You must configure SELinux before you create the HostPathProvisioner custom
resource. To configure SELinux on Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS 8 workers, you
must create a MachineConfig object on each node.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS workers, skip this procedure.
====

.Prerequisites

* Create a backing directory on each node for the PersistentVolumes (PVs)
that the hostpath provisioner creates.


.Procedure

. Create the MachineConfig file. For example:
+
----
$ touch machineconfig.yaml
----

. Edit the file, ensuring that you include the directory where you want the
hostpath provisioner to create PVs. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  name: 50-set-selinux-for-hostpath-provisioner
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    systemd:
      units:
        - contents: |
            [Unit]
            Description=Set SELinux chcon for hostpath provisioner
            Before=kubelet.service

            [Service]
            ExecStart=/usr/bin/chcon -Rt container_file_t <path/to/backing/directory> <1>

            [Install]
            WantedBy=multi-user.target
          enabled: true
          name: hostpath-provisioner.service
----
<1> Specify the backing directory where you want the provisioner to create PVs.

. Create the MachineConfig object:
+
----
$ oc create -f machineconfig.yaml -n <namespace>
----

Commit message:

Adding a warning admonition (taken from upstream) to hostpath-provisioner config: backing partitions shouldn't share with OS

modules/cnv-configuring-selinux-hpp-on-rhcos8.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cnv/cnv_virtual_machines/cnv_virtual_disks/cnv-configuring-local-storage-for-vms.adoc

[id="cnv-configuring-selinux-hpp-on-rhcos8_{context}"]
= Configuring SELinux for the hostpath provisioner on Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS 8

You must configure SELinux before you create the HostPathProvisioner custom
resource. To configure SELinux on Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS 8 workers, you
must create a MachineConfig object on each node.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS workers, skip this procedure.
====

.Prerequisites

* Create a backing directory on each node for the PersistentVolumes (PVs)
that the hostpath provisioner creates.

[WARNING]
====
If you select a directory that shares space with your operating system, you can
exhaust the space on that partition, causing the node to stop functioning. To avoid
this issue, create a separate partition and point the hostpath provisioner to that directory.
====

.Procedure

. Create the MachineConfig file. For example:
+
----
$ touch machineconfig.yaml
----

. Edit the file, ensuring that you include the directory where you want the
hostpath provisioner to create PVs. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  name: 50-set-selinux-for-hostpath-provisioner
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    systemd:
      units:
        - contents: |
            [Unit]
            Description=Set SELinux chcon for hostpath provisioner
            Before=kubelet.service

            [Service]
            ExecStart=/usr/bin/chcon -Rt container_file_t <path/to/backing/directory> <1>

            [Install]
            WantedBy=multi-user.target
          enabled: true
          name: hostpath-provisioner.service
----
<1> Specify the backing directory where you want the provisioner to create PVs.

. Create the MachineConfig object:
+
----
$ oc create -f machineconfig.yaml -n <namespace>
----
