modules/compliance-anatomy.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-troubleshooting.adoc

[id="compliance-anatomy_{context}"]
= Anatomy of a scan

The following sections outline the components and stages of Compliance Operator scans.

[id="compliance-anatomy-compliance-sources_{context}"]
== Compliance sources
The compliance content is stored in `Profile` objects that are generated from a `ProfileBundle` object. The Compliance Operator creates a `ProfileBundle` object for the cluster and another for the cluster nodes.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -n openshift-compliance profilebundle.compliance
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -n openshift-compliance profile.compliance
----

The `ProfileBundle` objects are processed by deployments labeled with the `Bundle` name. To troubleshoot an issue with the `Bundle`, you can find the deployment and view logs of the pods in a deployment:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -n openshift-compliance -lprofile-bundle=ocp4 -c profileparser
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -n openshift-compliance deployments,pods -lprofile-bundle=ocp4
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -n openshift-compliance pods/<pod-name>
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe -n openshift-compliance pod/<pod-name> -c profileparser
----

[id="compliance-anatomy-scan-setting-scan-binding-lifecycle_{context}"]
== The ScanSetting and ScanSettingBinding objects lifecycle and debugging
With valid compliance content sources, the high-level `ScanSetting` and `ScanSettingBinding` objects can be used to generate `ComplianceSuite` and `ComplianceScan` objects:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ScanSetting
metadata:
  name: my-companys-constraints
debug: true
# For each role, a separate scan will be created pointing
# to a node-role specified in roles
roles:
  - worker
---
apiVersion: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ScanSettingBinding
metadata:
  name: my-companys-compliance-requirements
profiles:
  # Node checks
  - name: rhcos4-e8
    kind: Profile
    apiGroup: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
  # Cluster checks
  - name: ocp4-e8
    kind: Profile
    apiGroup: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
settingsRef:
  name: my-companys-constraints
  kind: ScanSetting
  apiGroup: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
----

Both `ScanSetting` and `ScanSettingBinding` objects are handled by the same controller tagged with `logger=scansettingbindingctrl`.  These objects have no status. Any issues are communicated in form of events:

[source,terminal]
----
Events:
  Type     Reason        Age    From                    Message
  ----     ------        ----   ----                    -------
  Normal   SuiteCreated  9m52s  scansettingbindingctrl  ComplianceSuite openshift-compliance/my-companys-compliance-requirements created
----

Now a `ComplianceSuite` object is created. The flow continues to reconcile the newly created `ComplianceSuite`.

[id="compliance-suite-lifecycle-debugging_{context}"]
== ComplianceSuite custom resource lifecycle and debugging
The `ComplianceSuite` CR is a wrapper around `ComplianceScan` CRs. The `ComplianceSuite` CR is handled by controller tagged with `logger=suitectrl`.
This controller handles creating scans from a suite, reconciling and aggregating individual Scan statuses into a single Suite status. If a suite is set to execute periodically, the `suitectrl` also handles creating a `CronJob` CR that re-runs the scans in the suite after the initial run is done:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cronjobs
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                           SCHEDULE    SUSPEND   ACTIVE   LAST SCHEDULE   AGE
<cron_name>                                    0 1 * * *   False     0        <none>          151m
----

For the most important issues, events are emitted. View them with `oc describe compliancesuites/<name>`. The `Suite` objects also have a `Status` subresource that is updated when any of `Scan` objects that belong to this suite update their `Status` subresource. After all expected scans are created, control is passed to the scan controller.

[id="compliance-scan-lifecycle-debugging_{context}"]
== ComplianceScan custom resource lifecycle and debugging
The `ComplianceScan` CRs are handled by the `scanctrl` controller. This is also where the actual scans happen and the scan results are created. Each scan goes through several phases:

[id="compliance-scan-pending-phase_{context}"]
=== Pending phase
The scan is validated for correctness in this phase. If some parameters like storage size are invalid, the scan transitions to DONE with ERROR result, otherwise proceeds to the Launching phase.

[id="compliance-scan-launching-phase_{context}"]
=== Launching phase
In this phase, several config maps that contain either environment for the scanner pods or directly the script that the scanner pods will be evaluating. List the config maps:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance get cm \
-l compliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker,complianceoperator.openshift.io/scan-script=
----

These config maps will be used by the scanner pods. If you ever needed to modify the scanner behavior, change the scanner debug level or print the raw results, modifying the config maps is the way to go. Afterwards, a persistent volume claim is created per scan to store the raw ARF results:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pvc -n openshift-compliance -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker
----

The PVCs are mounted by a per-scan `ResultServer` deployment. A `ResultServer` is a simple HTTP server where the individual scanner pods upload the full ARF results to. Each server can run on a different node. The full ARF results might be very large and you cannot presume that it would be possible to create a volume that could be mounted from multiple nodes at the same time. After the scan is finished, the `ResultServer` deployment is scaled down. The PVC with the raw results can be mounted from another custom pod and the results can be fetched or inspected. The traffic between the scanner pods and the `ResultServer` is protected by mutual TLS protocols.

Finally, the scanner pods are launched in this phase; one scanner pod for a `Platform` scan instance and one scanner pod per matching node for a `node` scan instance. The per-node pods are labeled with the node name. Each pod is always labeled with the `ComplianceScan` name:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker,workload=scanner --show-labels
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                              READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE   LABELS
rhcos4-e8-worker-ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal-pod   0/2     Completed   0          39m   compliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker,targetNode=ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal,workload=scanner
----
+
The scan then proceeds to the Running phase.

[id="compliance-scan-running-phase_{context}"]
=== Running phase
The running phase waits until the scanner pods finish. The following terms and processes are in use in the running phase:

* *init container*: There is one init container called `content-container`. It runs the *contentImage* container and executes a single command that copies the *contentFile* to the `/content` directory shared with the other containers in this pod.

* *scanner*: This container runs the scan. For node scans, the container mounts the node filesystem as `/host` and mounts the content delivered by the init container. The container also mounts the `entrypoint` `ConfigMap` created in the Launching phase and executes it. The default script in the entrypoint `ConfigMap` executes OpenSCAP and stores the result files in the `/results` directory shared between the pod's containers. Logs from this pod can be viewed to determine what the OpenSCAP scanner checked. More verbose output can be viewed with the `debug` flag.

* *logcollector*: The logcollector container waits until the scanner container finishes. Then, it uploads the full ARF results to the `ResultServer` and separately uploads the XCCDF results along with scan result and OpenSCAP result code as a `ConfigMap.` These result config maps are labeled with the scan name (`compliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker`):
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe cm/rhcos4-e8-worker-ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal-pod
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
      Name:         rhcos4-e8-worker-ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal-pod
      Namespace:    openshift-compliance
      Labels:       compliance.openshift.io/scan-name-scan=rhcos4-e8-worker
                    complianceoperator.openshift.io/scan-result=
      Annotations:  compliance-remediations/processed:
                    compliance.openshift.io/scan-error-msg:
                    compliance.openshift.io/scan-result: NON-COMPLIANT
                    OpenSCAP-scan-result/node: ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal

      Data
      ====
      exit-code:
      ----
      2
      results:
      ----
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      ...
----

Scanner pods for `Platform` scans are similar, except:

* There is one extra init container called `api-resource-collector` that reads the OpenSCAP content provided by the content-container init, container, figures out which API resources the content needs to examine and stores those API resources to a shared directory where the `scanner` container would read them from.

* The `scanner` container does not need to mount the host file system.

When the scanner pods are done, the scans move on to the Aggregating phase.

[id="compliance-scan-aggregating-phase_{context}"]
=== Aggregating phase
In the aggregating phase, the scan controller spawns yet another pod called the aggregator pod. Its purpose it to take the result `ConfigMap` objects, read the results and for each check result create the corresponding Kubernetes object. If the check failure can be automatically remediated, a `ComplianceRemediation` object is created. To provide human-readable metadata for the checks and remediations, the aggregator pod also mounts the OpenSCAP content using an init container.

When a config map is processed by an aggregator pod, it is labeled the `compliance-remediations/processed` label. The result of this phase are `ComplianceCheckResult` objects:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get compliancecheckresults -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                       STATUS   SEVERITY
rhcos4-e8-worker-accounts-no-uid-except-zero               PASS     high
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod        FAIL     medium
----
and `ComplianceRemediation` objects:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get complianceremediations -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                       STATE
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod        NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chown        NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-chcon               NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-restorecon          NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-semanage            NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-setfiles            NotApplied
----

After these CRs are created, the aggregator pod exits and the scan moves on to the Done phase.

[id="compliance-scan-done-phase_{context}"]
=== Done phase
In the final scan phase, the scan resources are cleaned up if needed and the `ResultServer` deployment is either scaled down (if the scan was one-time) or deleted if the scan is continuous; the next scan instance would then recreate the deployment again.

It is also possible to trigger a re-run of a scan in the Done phase by annotating it:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance \
annotate compliancescans/rhcos4-e8-worker compliance.openshift.io/rescan=
----

After the scan reaches the Done phase, nothing else happens on its own unless the remediations are set to be applied automatically with `autoApplyRemediations: true`. The {product-title} administrator would now review the remediations and apply them as needed. If the remediations are set to be applied automatically, the `ComplianceSuite` controller takes over in the Done phase, pauses the machine config pool to which the scan maps to and applies all the remediations in one go. If a remediation is applied, the `ComplianceRemediation` controller takes over.

[id="compliance-remediation-lifecycle-debugging_{context}"]
== ComplianceRemediation controller lifecycle and debugging
The example scan has reported some findings. One of the remediations can be enabled by toggling its `apply` attribute to `true`:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch complianceremediations/rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod --patch '{"spec":{"apply":true}}' --type=merge
----

The `ComplianceRemediation` controller (`logger=remediationctrl`) reconciles the modified object. The result of the reconciliation is change of status of the remediation object that is reconciled, but also a change of the rendered per-suite `MachineConfig` object that contains all the applied remediations.

The `MachineConfig` object always begins with `75-` and is named after the scan and the suite:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mc | grep 75-
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
75-rhcos4-e8-worker-my-companys-compliance-requirements                                                3.2.0             2m46s
----

The remediations the `mc` currently consists of are listed in the machine config's annotations:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe mc/75-rhcos4-e8-worker-my-companys-compliance-requirements
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         75-rhcos4-e8-worker-my-companys-compliance-requirements
Labels:       machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role=worker
Annotations:  remediation/rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod:
----

The `ComplianceRemediation` controller's algorithm works like this:

* All currently applied remediations are read into an initial remediation set.
* If the reconciled remediation is supposed to be applied, it is added to the set.
* A `MachineConfig` object is rendered from the set and annotated with names  of remediations in the set. If the set is empty (the last remediation was unapplied), the rendered `MachineConfig` object is removed.
* If and only if the rendered machine config is different from the one already applied in the cluster, the applied MC is updated (or created, or deleted).
* Creating or modifying a `MachineConfig` object triggers a reboot of nodes that match the `machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role` label - see the Machine Config Operator documentation for more details.

The remediation loop ends once the rendered machine config is updated, if needed, and the reconciled remediation object status is updated. In our case, applying the remediation would trigger a reboot. After the reboot, annotate the scan to re-run it:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance \
annotate compliancescans/rhcos4-e8-worker compliance.openshift.io/rescan=
----

The scan will run and finish. Check for the remediation to pass:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance \
get compliancecheckresults/rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                  STATUS   SEVERITY
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod   PASS     medium
----

[id="compliance-operator-useful-labels_{context}"]
== Useful labels

Each pod that is spawned by the Compliance Operator is labeled specifically with the scan it belongs to and the work it does. The scan identifier is labeled with the `compliance.openshift.io/scan-name` label. The workload identifier is labeled with the `workload` label.

The Compliance Operator schedules the following workloads:

* *scanner*: Performs the compliance scan.

* *resultserver*: Stores the raw results for the compliance scan.

* *aggregator*: Aggregates the results, detects inconsistencies and outputs result objects (checkresults and remediations).

* *suitererunner*: Will tag a suite to be re-run (when a schedule is set).

* *profileparser*: Parses a datastream and creates the appropriate profiles, rules and variables.

When debugging and logs are required for a certain workload, run:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -l workload=<workload_name> -c <container_name>
----

Commit message:

BZ1990481-R: Add commands for changing cronjob CR of Complicance Operator

modules/compliance-anatomy.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/compliance_operator/compliance-operator-troubleshooting.adoc

[id="compliance-anatomy_{context}"]
= Anatomy of a scan
:context: compliance-anatomy-sections

The following sections outline the components and stages of Compliance Operator scans.

[id="compliance-anatomy-compliance-sources_{context}"]
== Compliance sources
The compliance content is stored in `Profile` objects that are generated from a `ProfileBundle` object. The Compliance Operator creates a `ProfileBundle` object for the cluster and another for the cluster nodes.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -n openshift-compliance profilebundle.compliance
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -n openshift-compliance profile.compliance
----

The `ProfileBundle` objects are processed by deployments labeled with the `Bundle` name. To troubleshoot an issue with the `Bundle`, you can find the deployment and view logs of the pods in a deployment:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -n openshift-compliance -lprofile-bundle=ocp4 -c profileparser
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -n openshift-compliance deployments,pods -lprofile-bundle=ocp4
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -n openshift-compliance pods/<pod-name>
----

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe -n openshift-compliance pod/<pod-name> -c profileparser
----

[id="compliance-anatomy-scan-setting-scan-binding-lifecycle_{context}"]
== The ScanSetting and ScanSettingBinding objects lifecycle and debugging
With valid compliance content sources, the high-level `ScanSetting` and `ScanSettingBinding` objects can be used to generate `ComplianceSuite` and `ComplianceScan` objects:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ScanSetting
metadata:
  name: my-companys-constraints
debug: true
# For each role, a separate scan will be created pointing
# to a node-role specified in roles
roles:
  - worker
---
apiVersion: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: ScanSettingBinding
metadata:
  name: my-companys-compliance-requirements
profiles:
  # Node checks
  - name: rhcos4-e8
    kind: Profile
    apiGroup: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
  # Cluster checks
  - name: ocp4-e8
    kind: Profile
    apiGroup: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
settingsRef:
  name: my-companys-constraints
  kind: ScanSetting
  apiGroup: compliance.openshift.io/v1alpha1
----

Both `ScanSetting` and `ScanSettingBinding` objects are handled by the same controller tagged with `logger=scansettingbindingctrl`.  These objects have no status. Any issues are communicated in form of events:

[source,terminal]
----
Events:
  Type     Reason        Age    From                    Message
  ----     ------        ----   ----                    -------
  Normal   SuiteCreated  9m52s  scansettingbindingctrl  ComplianceSuite openshift-compliance/my-companys-compliance-requirements created
----

Now a `ComplianceSuite` object is created. The flow continues to reconcile the newly created `ComplianceSuite`.

[id="compliance-suite-lifecycle-debugging_{context}"]
== ComplianceSuite custom resource lifecycle and debugging
The `ComplianceSuite` CR is a wrapper around `ComplianceScan` CRs. The `ComplianceSuite` CR is handled by controller tagged with `logger=suitectrl`.
This controller handles creating scans from a suite, reconciling and aggregating individual Scan statuses into a single Suite status. If a suite is set to execute periodically, the `suitectrl` also handles creating a `CronJob` CR that re-runs the scans in the suite after the initial run is done:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cronjobs
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                           SCHEDULE    SUSPEND   ACTIVE   LAST SCHEDULE   AGE
<cron_name>                                    0 1 * * *   False     0        <none>          151m
----

For the most important issues, events are emitted. View them with `oc describe compliancesuites/<name>`. The `Suite` objects also have a `Status` subresource that is updated when any of `Scan` objects that belong to this suite update their `Status` subresource. After all expected scans are created, control is passed to the scan controller.

Sometimes, the `ComplianceSuite` CR cannot create a scan if the scan exceeds the default memory limit of the Compliance Operator. Exceeding this limit can result in an Out of Memory (OOM) error message. You can increase the memory for the Compliance Operator by setting custom resource limits.

To increase the default memory and CPU limits of scanner pods, see xref:../compliance-scansetting-cr.adoc[`ScanSetting` Custom resource].

The following example creates a patch file named `co-memlimit-patch.yaml` that sets a custom resource memory limit of 500 Mi for the Compliance Operator:

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  config:
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: 500Mi
----

The following example applies the patch file to the Compliance Operator:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch sub compliance-operator -nopenshift-compliance --patch-file co-memlimit-patch.yaml --type=merge
----

[id="compliance-scan-lifecycle-debugging_{context}"]
== ComplianceScan custom resource lifecycle and debugging
The `ComplianceScan` CRs are handled by the `scanctrl` controller. This is also where the actual scans happen and the scan results are created. Each scan goes through several phases:

[id="compliance-scan-pending-phase_{context}"]
=== Pending phase
The scan is validated for correctness in this phase. If some parameters like storage size are invalid, the scan transitions to DONE with ERROR result, otherwise proceeds to the Launching phase.

[id="compliance-scan-launching-phase_{context}"]
=== Launching phase
In this phase, several config maps that contain either environment for the scanner pods or directly the script that the scanner pods will be evaluating. List the config maps:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance get cm \
-l compliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker,complianceoperator.openshift.io/scan-script=
----

These config maps will be used by the scanner pods. If you ever needed to modify the scanner behavior, change the scanner debug level or print the raw results, modifying the config maps is the way to go. Afterwards, a persistent volume claim is created per scan to store the raw ARF results:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pvc -n openshift-compliance -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker
----

The PVCs are mounted by a per-scan `ResultServer` deployment. A `ResultServer` is a simple HTTP server where the individual scanner pods upload the full ARF results to. Each server can run on a different node. The full ARF results might be very large and you cannot presume that it would be possible to create a volume that could be mounted from multiple nodes at the same time. After the scan is finished, the `ResultServer` deployment is scaled down. The PVC with the raw results can be mounted from another custom pod and the results can be fetched or inspected. The traffic between the scanner pods and the `ResultServer` is protected by mutual TLS protocols.

Finally, the scanner pods are launched in this phase; one scanner pod for a `Platform` scan instance and one scanner pod per matching node for a `node` scan instance. The per-node pods are labeled with the node name. Each pod is always labeled with the `ComplianceScan` name:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker,workload=scanner --show-labels
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                              READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE   LABELS
rhcos4-e8-worker-ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal-pod   0/2     Completed   0          39m   compliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker,targetNode=ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal,workload=scanner
----
+
The scan then proceeds to the Running phase.

[id="compliance-scan-running-phase_{context}"]
=== Running phase
The running phase waits until the scanner pods finish. The following terms and processes are in use in the running phase:

* *init container*: There is one init container called `content-container`. It runs the *contentImage* container and executes a single command that copies the *contentFile* to the `/content` directory shared with the other containers in this pod.

* *scanner*: This container runs the scan. For node scans, the container mounts the node filesystem as `/host` and mounts the content delivered by the init container. The container also mounts the `entrypoint` `ConfigMap` created in the Launching phase and executes it. The default script in the entrypoint `ConfigMap` executes OpenSCAP and stores the result files in the `/results` directory shared between the pod's containers. Logs from this pod can be viewed to determine what the OpenSCAP scanner checked. More verbose output can be viewed with the `debug` flag.

* *logcollector*: The logcollector container waits until the scanner container finishes. Then, it uploads the full ARF results to the `ResultServer` and separately uploads the XCCDF results along with scan result and OpenSCAP result code as a `ConfigMap.` These result config maps are labeled with the scan name (`compliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker`):
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe cm/rhcos4-e8-worker-ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal-pod
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
      Name:         rhcos4-e8-worker-ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal-pod
      Namespace:    openshift-compliance
      Labels:       compliance.openshift.io/scan-name-scan=rhcos4-e8-worker
                    complianceoperator.openshift.io/scan-result=
      Annotations:  compliance-remediations/processed:
                    compliance.openshift.io/scan-error-msg:
                    compliance.openshift.io/scan-result: NON-COMPLIANT
                    OpenSCAP-scan-result/node: ip-10-0-169-90.eu-north-1.compute.internal

      Data
      ====
      exit-code:
      ----
      2
      results:
      ----
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      ...
----

Scanner pods for `Platform` scans are similar, except:

* There is one extra init container called `api-resource-collector` that reads the OpenSCAP content provided by the content-container init, container, figures out which API resources the content needs to examine and stores those API resources to a shared directory where the `scanner` container would read them from.

* The `scanner` container does not need to mount the host file system.

When the scanner pods are done, the scans move on to the Aggregating phase.

[id="compliance-scan-aggregating-phase_{context}"]
=== Aggregating phase
In the aggregating phase, the scan controller spawns yet another pod called the aggregator pod. Its purpose it to take the result `ConfigMap` objects, read the results and for each check result create the corresponding Kubernetes object. If the check failure can be automatically remediated, a `ComplianceRemediation` object is created. To provide human-readable metadata for the checks and remediations, the aggregator pod also mounts the OpenSCAP content using an init container.

When a config map is processed by an aggregator pod, it is labeled the `compliance-remediations/processed` label. The result of this phase are `ComplianceCheckResult` objects:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get compliancecheckresults -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                       STATUS   SEVERITY
rhcos4-e8-worker-accounts-no-uid-except-zero               PASS     high
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod        FAIL     medium
----
and `ComplianceRemediation` objects:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get complianceremediations -lcompliance.openshift.io/scan-name=rhcos4-e8-worker
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                       STATE
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod        NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chown        NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-chcon               NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-restorecon          NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-semanage            NotApplied
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-execution-setfiles            NotApplied
----

After these CRs are created, the aggregator pod exits and the scan moves on to the Done phase.

[id="compliance-scan-done-phase_{context}"]
=== Done phase
In the final scan phase, the scan resources are cleaned up if needed and the `ResultServer` deployment is either scaled down (if the scan was one-time) or deleted if the scan is continuous; the next scan instance would then recreate the deployment again.

It is also possible to trigger a re-run of a scan in the Done phase by annotating it:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance \
annotate compliancescans/rhcos4-e8-worker compliance.openshift.io/rescan=
----

After the scan reaches the Done phase, nothing else happens on its own unless the remediations are set to be applied automatically with `autoApplyRemediations: true`. The {product-title} administrator would now review the remediations and apply them as needed. If the remediations are set to be applied automatically, the `ComplianceSuite` controller takes over in the Done phase, pauses the machine config pool to which the scan maps to and applies all the remediations in one go. If a remediation is applied, the `ComplianceRemediation` controller takes over.

[id="compliance-remediation-lifecycle-debugging_{context}"]
== ComplianceRemediation controller lifecycle and debugging
The example scan has reported some findings. One of the remediations can be enabled by toggling its `apply` attribute to `true`:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch complianceremediations/rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod --patch '{"spec":{"apply":true}}' --type=merge
----

The `ComplianceRemediation` controller (`logger=remediationctrl`) reconciles the modified object. The result of the reconciliation is change of status of the remediation object that is reconciled, but also a change of the rendered per-suite `MachineConfig` object that contains all the applied remediations.

The `MachineConfig` object always begins with `75-` and is named after the scan and the suite:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get mc | grep 75-
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
75-rhcos4-e8-worker-my-companys-compliance-requirements                                                3.2.0             2m46s
----

The remediations the `mc` currently consists of are listed in the machine config's annotations:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe mc/75-rhcos4-e8-worker-my-companys-compliance-requirements
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         75-rhcos4-e8-worker-my-companys-compliance-requirements
Labels:       machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role=worker
Annotations:  remediation/rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod:
----

The `ComplianceRemediation` controller's algorithm works like this:

* All currently applied remediations are read into an initial remediation set.
* If the reconciled remediation is supposed to be applied, it is added to the set.
* A `MachineConfig` object is rendered from the set and annotated with names  of remediations in the set. If the set is empty (the last remediation was unapplied), the rendered `MachineConfig` object is removed.
* If and only if the rendered machine config is different from the one already applied in the cluster, the applied MC is updated (or created, or deleted).
* Creating or modifying a `MachineConfig` object triggers a reboot of nodes that match the `machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role` label - see the Machine Config Operator documentation for more details.

The remediation loop ends once the rendered machine config is updated, if needed, and the reconciled remediation object status is updated. In our case, applying the remediation would trigger a reboot. After the reboot, annotate the scan to re-run it:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance \
annotate compliancescans/rhcos4-e8-worker compliance.openshift.io/rescan=
----

The scan will run and finish. Check for the remediation to pass:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-compliance \
get compliancecheckresults/rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                                  STATUS   SEVERITY
rhcos4-e8-worker-audit-rules-dac-modification-chmod   PASS     medium
----

[id="compliance-operator-useful-labels_{context}"]
== Useful labels

Each pod that is spawned by the Compliance Operator is labeled specifically with the scan it belongs to and the work it does. The scan identifier is labeled with the `compliance.openshift.io/scan-name` label. The workload identifier is labeled with the `workload` label.

The Compliance Operator schedules the following workloads:

* *scanner*: Performs the compliance scan.

* *resultserver*: Stores the raw results for the compliance scan.

* *aggregator*: Aggregates the results, detects inconsistencies and outputs result objects (checkresults and remediations).

* *suitererunner*: Will tag a suite to be re-run (when a schedule is set).

* *profileparser*: Parses a datastream and creates the appropriate profiles, rules and variables.

When debugging and logs are required for a certain workload, run:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs -l workload=<workload_name> -c <container_name>
----
