modules/con-connectivity-link-benefits.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *introduction/introduction.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="connectivity-link-benefits_{context}"]
= {prodname} benefits

[role="_abstract"]
{prodname} provides the following main business benefits:

User oriented::
Gateway API is composed of API resources that correspond to the organizational roles of infrastructure owner, cluster Operator, and application developer. Infrastructure owners and cluster operators are platform engineers who define how shared infrastructure can be used by many different non-coordinating application development teams.
+
Application developers are responsible for creating and managing applications running in a cluster. For example, this includes creating APIs and managing application timeouts, request matching, and path routing to backends.

Kubernetes-native::
{prodname} is designed to use Kubernetes-native features for resource efficiency and optimal use. These features can run on any public or private {ocp} cluster, offering multicloud and hybrid-cloud behavior by default. {ocp} is proven to be scalable, resilient, and highly available.

Expressive configuration::
Gateway API resources provide built-in capabilities for header-based matching, traffic weighting, and other capabilities that are only currently possible in existing ingress standards by using custom annotations and custom code. This allows for more intelligent routing, security, and isolation of specific routes without the necessity of writing custom code.

Portability::
Gateway API is an open source standard with many implementations, which is designed by using the concept of flexible conformance. This promotes a highly portable core API that still has flexibility and extensibility to support native capabilities of the environment and implementation. This enables the concepts and core resources to be consistent across implementation and environments, reducing complexity and increasing familiarity.

Hybrid cloud and multicloud::
{prodname} includes the flexibility to deploy the same application to any {ocp} cluster hosted on a public or private cloud. This removes a singular dependency or a single point of failure by being tied to a specific cloud provider.
+
For example, if one cloud provider is having network issues, you can switch your deployment and traffic to another cloud provider to minimize the impact on your customers. This provides high availability and disaster recovery and ensures that you are prepared for the unexpected and can establish uninterrupted service, so that your platforms and applications remain resilient.

Infrastructure as code::
You can define your infrastructure by using code to ensure that it is version controlled, tested, and easily replicated. Automated scaling leverages {ocp} auto-scaling features to dynamically adjust resources based on workload demand. This also includes the ability to implement robust monitoring and logging solutions to gain full visibility into your {ocp} clusters.

Modular and flexible::
The highly flexible and modular {prodname} architecture enables you to use the technologies and tools that you already have in place, while also allowing you to plug into the connectivity management platform for maximum effectiveness. This includes technologies and tools such as the following:

* Cloud service providers: Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure
* DNS providers: Amazon Route 53, Google Cloud DNS, Microsoft Azure DNS, CoreDNS
* Gateway API controllers: {ocp}, {ocp} Service Mesh
* Metrics and alerts: Prometheus, Thanos, Kiali
* Dashboards: Grafana, Red Hat Developer Hub
* GitOps and automation: Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, {ocp} GitOps, GitHub
* Additional integrations: Red Hat build of Keycloak, Red Hat Service Interconnect

Commit message:

OSDOCS-18019: informal CQA RHCL docs

modules/con-connectivity-link-benefits.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *introduction/introduction.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="connectivity-link-benefits_{context}"]
= {prodname} benefits

[role="_abstract"]
{prodname} provides the following main business benefits:

Kubernetes-native::
{prodname} is designed to use Kubernetes-native features for resource efficiency and optimal use. These features can run on any public or private {ocp} cluster, offering multicloud and hybrid-cloud behavior by default.

Hybrid cloud and multicloud::
{prodname} includes the flexibility to deploy the same application to any {ocp} cluster hosted on a public or private cloud. This removes the dependency on a specific cloud provider.
+
For example, if one cloud provider is having network issues, you can switch your deployment and traffic to another cloud provider to minimize the impact on your customers. This ability provides high availability and disaster recovery. It also means that your platforms and applications can remain resilient by ensuring that you are prepared for the unexpected and can establish uninterrupted service.
//Q: is rhcl the whole solution for infrastructure as code, or part of it? does rhcl do all of these things?
Infrastructure as code::
You can define your infrastructure by using code to ensure that it is version controlled, tested, and easily replicated. Automated scaling uses {ocp} auto-scaling features to dynamically adjust resources based on workload demand. You can also use {prodname} to implement robust monitoring and logging solutions to gain full visibility into your {ocp} clusters.
//Q: is this true? we would use this instead of NO etc?

Modular and flexible::
You can use the technologies and tools that you already have in place with {prodname}. For example, the following are services and tools you can use:

* Cloud service providers: Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure
* DNS providers: Amazon Route 53, Google Cloud DNS, Microsoft Azure DNS, CoreDNS
* Gateway API controllers: {ocp}, {ocp} Service Mesh
* Metrics and alerts: Prometheus, Thanos, Kiali
* Dashboards: Grafana, Red Hat Developer Hub
* GitOps and automation: Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, {ocp} GitOps, GitHub
* Additional integrations: Red Hat build of Keycloak, Red Hat Service Interconnect

Gateway API::
Using Gateway API to set up ingress policies on each {ocp} cluster means that ingress can be identical, consistent, and implemented simultaneously.

In Kubernetes-based environments, link:https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/[Gateway API] is the standard for deploying ingress gateways and managing application networking. Gateway API provides standardized APIs for ingress traffic management and support for many protocols.
+
.Gateway API user-persona-based design
image::connectivity-link-gateway-api.png[{prodname} Gateway API user-persona-based design]

Observability::
{prodname} uses Kuadrant-maintained Gateway API state metrics, metrics exposed by {prodname} components, and standard metrics exposed by Envoy to build a set of example template alerts and dashboards. You can download and use these Kuadrant community templates to integrate with Grafana, Prometheus, and Alertmanager deployments, or use them as starting points that you can tailor for your specific needs.
