modules/con-connectivity-link-workflows.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *introduction/introduction.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="connectivity-link-workflows_{context}"]
= {prodname} user workflows

[role="_abstract"]
{prodname} includes the following main user persona roles:

* Platform engineer
* Application developer
* Business user

[id="rhcl-platform-eng-workflow_{context}"]
== Platform engineer workflow

Platform engineers use {prodname} to set up ingress Gateways on {ocp} clusters in specific regions. They then ensure that all policies are configured identically on all Gateways for consistency.

For example, platform engineers configure DNS policies to ensure that customers in Brazil are routed to the South American data center, and that other customers around the world are routed to the appropriate environment. They also configure TLS, authentication and authorization, and rate limiting policies to ensure that Gateway security, performance, and monitoring conform to the correct standards.

The following diagrams show a high-level overview of the {prodname} platform engineer workflow:

.{prodname} platform engineer sets up Gateways
image::connectivity-link-platform-eng-gateway-flow.png[{prodname} platform engineer sets up Gateway workflow]

As a platform engineer, you must start by creating one or more Gateways, if they have not already been created.

.{prodname} platform engineer configures Gateway policies
image::connectivity-link-platform-eng-policy-flow.png[{prodname} platform engineer configures Gateway policies workflow]

You can connect Gateways by creating a DNS policy and configuring a global load balancing strategy. DNS records are reconciled with your cloud DNS provider automatically, whether in a single-cluster or multicluster environment.

You can secure Gateways by using a TLS policy that automatically generates certificate requests for the hostnames specified in your Gateway. This includes support for the main ACME providers such as Let's Encrypt. You can also set up application security defaults and overrides by using authentication and authorization policies and rate limiting policies.

In addition, you can observe your connectivity and runtime metrics by using Grafana-based dashboards and alerts. For example, this includes metrics for policy compliance and governance, resource consumption, error rates, request latency and throughput, multicluster split, and so on.

[id="rhcl-app-dev-workflow_{context}"]
== Application developer workflow

Application developers use {prodname} to deploy applications and APIs on {ocp} clusters and Gateways that have already been set up by platform engineers. Application developers ensure that applications and APIs are protected by the required authentication and authorization, and configure rate limits on API requests. They also set up application routes and API definitions and publish them to the cluster.

Application developers use Grafana dashboards to view API metrics, such as uptime, requests per second, latency, and errors per minute, to ensure that APIs meet performance and availability benchmarks achieved by other data centers. The following diagram shows a high-level overview of the {prodname} application developer workflow:

.{prodname} application developer configures policies for applications and APIs
image::connectivity-link-app-dev-flow.png[{prodname} application developer workflow]

As an application developer, you can route to applications from the Gateway, configure protection for your services with root-level authentication, external authorization, and rate limiting. You can also monitor workloads and the status of {ocp} resource metrics and tracing by using Grafana-based observability dashboards and alerts.

[id="rhcl-business-workflow_{context}"]
== Business user workflow

Business users such as account managers and application owners use Grafana-based observability dashboards to monitor the status of applications and APIs in data centers in specific regions, and work with customers on specific performance metrics. They view API metrics, such as uptime, requests per second, latency, and errors per minute, to ensure that APIs meet the performance and availability benchmarks that are expected by customers.

Business users also communicate with engineering teams if customers experience any issues that can be resolved by platform engineers or application developers.

Commit message:

OSDOCS-18019: informal CQA RHCL docs

modules/con-connectivity-link-workflows.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *introduction/introduction.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="connectivity-link-workflows_{context}"]
= {prodname} user workflows
//TODO break this content up into modules OR into relevant spots where the procedures are
[role="_abstract"]
Similar to Gateway API, {prodname} includes the following main user personas:

* Platform engineer
* Application developer
* Business user

Each persona has a different way to work with {prodname}, depending on how that person is interacting with your {ocp} clusters.

[id="rhcl-platform-eng-workflow_{context}"]
== Platform engineer workflow

As a platform engineer, you can use {prodname} to set up ingress gateways on {ocp} clusters in specific regions. They then ensure that all policies are configured identically on all gateways for consistency.

For example, platform engineers configure DNS policies to ensure that customers in Brazil are routed to the South American data center, and that other customers around the world are routed to the appropriate environment. They also configure TLS, authentication and authorization, and rate limiting policies to ensure that Gateway security, performance, and monitoring conform to the correct standards.

The following diagrams show a high-level overview of the {prodname} platform engineer workflow:

.{prodname} platform engineer sets up gateways
image::connectivity-link-platform-eng-gateway-flow.png[{prodname} platform engineer sets up gateway workflow]

As a platform engineer, you must start by creating at least one gateway. If gateways exist, you can move on to configuring policies for your gateways.
//But we don't show how to do this; is this a prereq?

.{prodname} platform engineer configures gateway policies
image::connectivity-link-platform-eng-policy-flow.png[{prodname} platform engineer configures gateway policies workflow]

Connect gateways::
You can connect gateways by creating a DNS policy and configuring a global load balancing strategy. DNS records are reconciled with your cloud DNS provider automatically, whether in a single-cluster or multicluster environment.

Secure gateways::
You can secure gateways by using a TLS policy that automatically generates certificate requests for the hostnames specified in your Gateway. This includes support for the main ACME providers such as Let's Encrypt. You can also set up application security defaults and overrides by using authentication and authorization policies and rate limiting policies.

Observe gateways::
In addition, you can observe your connectivity and runtime metrics by using Grafana-based dashboards and alerts. For example, this includes metrics for policy compliance and governance, resource consumption, error rates, request latency and throughput, multicluster split, and so on.
