modules/con_bmo-bare-metal-operator-architecture.adoc, before:

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="bmo-bare-metal-operator-architecture_{context}"]
= Bare Metal Operator architecture

The Bare Metal Operator (BMO) uses three resources to provision, manage, and inspect bare-metal hosts in your cluster. The following diagram illustrates the architecture of these resources:

image::302_OpenShift_Bare_Metal_Operator_0223.png[BMO architecture overview]

.BareMetalHost

The `BareMetalHost` resource defines a physical host and its properties. When you provision a bare-metal host to the cluster, you must define a `BareMetalHost` resource for that host. For ongoing management of the host, you can inspect the information in the `BareMetalHost` or update this information.

The `BareMetalHost` resource features provisioning information such as the following:

* Deployment specifications such as the operating system boot image or the custom RAM disk
* Provisioning state
* Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) address
* Desired power state

The `BareMetalHost` resource features hardware information such as the following:

* Number of CPUs
* MAC address of a NIC
* Size of the host's storage device
* Current power state

.HostFirmwareSettings
You can use the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource to retrieve and manage the firmware settings for a host. When a host moves to the `Available` state, the Ironic service reads the host's firmware settings and creates the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource. There is a one-to-one mapping between the `BareMetalHost` resource and the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.

You can use the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource to inspect the firmware specifications for a host or to update a host's firmware specifications.

[NOTE]
====
You must adhere to the schema specific to the vendor firmware when you edit the `spec` field of the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource. This schema is defined in the read-only `FirmwareSchema` resource.
====

.FirmwareSchema
Firmware settings vary among hardware vendors and host models. A `FirmwareSchema` resource is a read-only resource that contains the types and limits for each firmware setting on each host model. The data comes directly from the BMC by using the Ironic service. The `FirmwareSchema` resource enables you to identify valid values you can specify in the `spec` field of the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.

A `FirmwareSchema` resource can apply to many `BareMetalHost` resources if the schema is the same.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://metal3.io/[Metal³ API service for provisioning bare-metal hosts]
* link:https://ironicbaremetal.org/[Ironic API service for managing bare-metal infrastructure]

Commit message:

HCIDOCS-187.1: Added a module for editing the baremetalhost resource..

modules/con_bmo-bare-metal-operator-architecture.adoc, after:

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="bmo-bare-metal-operator-architecture_{context}"]
= Bare Metal Operator architecture

The Bare Metal Operator (BMO) uses the following resources to provision, manage, and inspect bare-metal hosts in your cluster. The following diagram illustrates the architecture of these resources:

image::715_OpenShift_Bare_Metal_Operator_updates_0624.png[BMO architecture overview]

.BareMetalHost

The `BareMetalHost` resource defines a physical host and its properties. When you provision a bare-metal host to the cluster, you must define a `BareMetalHost` resource for that host. For ongoing management of the host, you can inspect the information in the `BareMetalHost` or update this information.

The `BareMetalHost` resource features provisioning information such as the following:

* Deployment specifications such as the operating system boot image or the custom RAM disk
* Provisioning state
* Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) address
* Desired power state

The `BareMetalHost` resource features hardware information such as the following:

* Number of CPUs
* MAC address of a NIC
* Size of the host's storage device
* Current power state

.HostFirmwareSettings
You can use the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource to retrieve and manage the firmware settings for a host. When a host moves to the `Available` state, the Ironic service reads the host's firmware settings and creates the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource. There is a one-to-one mapping between the `BareMetalHost` resource and the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.

You can use the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource to inspect the firmware specifications for a host or to update a host's firmware specifications.

[NOTE]
====
You must adhere to the schema specific to the vendor firmware when you edit the `spec` field of the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource. This schema is defined in the read-only `FirmwareSchema` resource.
====

.FirmwareSchema
Firmware settings vary among hardware vendors and host models. A `FirmwareSchema` resource is a read-only resource that contains the types and limits for each firmware setting on each host model. The data comes directly from the BMC by using the Ironic service. The `FirmwareSchema` resource enables you to identify valid values you can specify in the `spec` field of the `HostFirmwareSettings` resource.

A `FirmwareSchema` resource can apply to many `BareMetalHost` resources if the schema is the same.

.HostFirmwareComponents

Metal^3^ provides the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource, which describes BIOS and baseboard management controller (BMC) firmware versions. You can upgrade or downgrade the host's firmware to a specific version by editing the `spec` field of the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource. This is useful when deploying with validated patterns that have been tested against specific firmware versions.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources
* link:https://metal3.io/[Metal^3^ API service for provisioning bare-metal hosts]
* link:https://ironicbaremetal.org/[Ironic API service for managing bare-metal infrastructure]
