modules/configuring-firewall.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/install_config/configuring-firewall.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-firewall_{context}"]
= Configuring your firewall for {product-title}

Before you install {product-title}, you must configure your firewall to grant access to the sites that {product-title} requires.

There are no special configuration considerations for services running on only controller nodes versus worker nodes.

.Procedure

. Allowlist the following registry URLs:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`registry.redhat.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn01.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn02.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn03.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`sso.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|The `https://console.redhat.com/openshift` site uses authentication from `sso.redhat.com`

|===
+
You can use the wildcards `\*.quay.io` and `*.openshiftapps.com` instead of `cdn0[1-3].quay.io` in your allowlist. When you add a site, such as `quay.io`, to your allowlist, do not add a wildcard entry, such as `*.quay.io`, to your denylist. In most cases, image registries use a content delivery network (CDN) to serve images. If a firewall blocks access, image downloads are denied when the initial download request redirects to a hostname such as `cdn01.quay.io`.

. Allowlist any site that provides resources for a language or framework that your builds require.

. If you do not disable Telemetry, you must grant access to the following URLs to access Red Hat Insights:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`cert-api.access.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry

|`api.access.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry

|`infogw.api.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry

|`console.redhat.com/api/ingress`, `cloud.redhat.com/api/ingress`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry and for `insights-operator`
|===

. If you use Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to host your cluster, you must grant access to the URLs that provide the cloud provider API and DNS for that cloud:
+
[cols="2a,8a,2a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Cloud |URL | Port |Function

|Alibaba
|*.aliyuncs.com
|443, 80
|Required to access Alibaba Cloud services and resources. Review the link:https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/sdk/endpoints/endpoints_config.go?spm=a2c4g.11186623.0.0.47875873ciGnC8&file=endpoints_config.go[Alibaba endpoints_config.go file] to determine the exact endpoints to allow for the regions that you use.

|AWS
|`*.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access AWS services and resources. Review the link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html[AWS Service Endpoints] in the AWS documentation to determine the exact endpoints to allow for the regions that you use.

.2+|GCP
|`*.googleapis.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access GCP services and resources. Review link:https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/[Cloud Endpoints] in the GCP documentation to determine the endpoints to allow for your APIs.

|`accounts.google.com`
|443, 80
| Required to access your GCP account.

.4+|Azure
|`management.azure.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access Azure services and resources. Review the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/azure/[Azure REST API reference] in the Azure documentation to determine the endpoints to allow for your APIs.

|`*.blob.core.windows.net`
|443, 80
|Required to download Ignition files.

|`login.microsoftonline.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access Azure services and resources. Review the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/azure/[Azure REST API reference] in the Azure documentation to determine the endpoints to allow for your APIs.

|===

. Allowlist the following URLs:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`mirror.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access mirrored installation content and images. This site is also a source of release image signatures, although the Cluster Version Operator needs only a single functioning source.

|`storage.googleapis.com/openshift-release`
|443, 80
|A source of release image signatures, although the Cluster Version Operator needs only a single functioning source.

|`*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`
|443, 80
|Required to access the default cluster routes unless you set an ingress wildcard during installation.

|`quayio-production-s3.s3.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access Quay image content in AWS.

|`api.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required both for your cluster token and to check if updates are available for the cluster.

|`rhcos.mirror.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required to download {op-system-first} images.

|`console.redhat.com/openshift`
|443, 80
|Required for your cluster token.

|`registry.access.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for `odo` CLI.

|`sso.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|The `https://console.redhat.com/openshift` site uses authentication from `sso.redhat.com`

|===
Operators require route access to perform health checks. Specifically, the
authentication and web console Operators connect to two routes to verify that
the routes work. If you are the cluster administrator and do not want to allow
`*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`, then allow these routes:
+
* `oauth-openshift.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`
* `console-openshift-console.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`, or the hostname
that is specified in the `spec.route.hostname` field of the
`consoles.operator/cluster` object if the field is not empty.

. Allowlist the following URLs for optional third-party content:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`registry.connect.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for all third-party images and certified operators.

|`rhc4tp-prod-z8cxf-image-registry-us-east-1-evenkyleffocxqvofrk.s3.dualstack.us-east-1.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Provides access to container images hosted on `registry.connect.redhat.com`

|`oso-rhc4tp-docker-registry.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Sonatype Nexus, F5 Big IP operators.
|===
+
. If you use a default Red Hat Network Time Protocol (NTP) server allow the following URLs:
* `1.rhel.pool.ntp.org`
* `2.rhel.pool.ntp.org`
* `3.rhel.pool.ntp.org`

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use a default Red Hat NTP server, verify the NTP server for your platform and allow it in your firewall.
====

Commit message:

BZ#1989966 Adding releases-art-rhcos.svc.ci.openshift.org to allowlist

modules/configuring-firewall.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/install_config/configuring-firewall.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-firewall_{context}"]
= Configuring your firewall for {product-title}

Before you install {product-title}, you must configure your firewall to grant access to the sites that {product-title} requires.

There are no special configuration considerations for services running on only controller nodes versus worker nodes.

.Procedure

. Allowlist the following registry URLs:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`registry.redhat.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn01.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn02.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`cdn03.quay.io`
|443, 80
|Provides core container images

|`sso.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|The `https://console.redhat.com/openshift` site uses authentication from `sso.redhat.com`

|===
+
You can use the wildcards `\*.quay.io` and `*.openshiftapps.com` instead of `cdn0[1-3].quay.io` in your allowlist. When you add a site, such as `quay.io`, to your allowlist, do not add a wildcard entry, such as `*.quay.io`, to your denylist. In most cases, image registries use a content delivery network (CDN) to serve images. If a firewall blocks access, image downloads are denied when the initial download request redirects to a hostname such as `cdn01.quay.io`.

. Allowlist any site that provides resources for a language or framework that your builds require.

. If you do not disable Telemetry, you must grant access to the following URLs to access Red Hat Insights:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`cert-api.access.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry

|`api.access.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry

|`infogw.api.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry

|`console.redhat.com/api/ingress`, `cloud.redhat.com/api/ingress`
|443, 80
|Required for Telemetry and for `insights-operator`
|===

. If you use Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) to host your cluster, you must grant access to the URLs that provide the cloud provider API and DNS for that cloud:
+
[cols="2a,8a,2a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Cloud |URL | Port |Function

|Alibaba
|*.aliyuncs.com
|443, 80
|Required to access Alibaba Cloud services and resources. Review the link:https://github.com/aliyun/alibaba-cloud-sdk-go/blob/master/sdk/endpoints/endpoints_config.go?spm=a2c4g.11186623.0.0.47875873ciGnC8&file=endpoints_config.go[Alibaba endpoints_config.go file] to determine the exact endpoints to allow for the regions that you use.

|AWS
|`*.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access AWS services and resources. Review the link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html[AWS Service Endpoints] in the AWS documentation to determine the exact endpoints to allow for the regions that you use.

.2+|GCP
|`*.googleapis.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access GCP services and resources. Review link:https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/[Cloud Endpoints] in the GCP documentation to determine the endpoints to allow for your APIs.

|`accounts.google.com`
|443, 80
| Required to access your GCP account.

.4+|Azure
|`management.azure.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access Azure services and resources. Review the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/azure/[Azure REST API reference] in the Azure documentation to determine the endpoints to allow for your APIs.

|`*.blob.core.windows.net`
|443, 80
|Required to download Ignition files.

|`login.microsoftonline.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access Azure services and resources. Review the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/azure/[Azure REST API reference] in the Azure documentation to determine the endpoints to allow for your APIs.

|===

. Allowlist the following URLs:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`mirror.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access mirrored installation content and images. This site is also a source of release image signatures, although the Cluster Version Operator needs only a single functioning source.

|`storage.googleapis.com/openshift-release`
|443, 80
|A source of release image signatures, although the Cluster Version Operator needs only a single functioning source.

|`*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`
|443, 80
|Required to access the default cluster routes unless you set an ingress wildcard during installation.

|`quayio-production-s3.s3.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Required to access Quay image content in AWS.

|`api.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required both for your cluster token and to check if updates are available for the cluster.

|`rhcos.mirror.openshift.com`
|443, 80
|Required to download {op-system-first} images.

|`console.redhat.com/openshift`
|443, 80
|Required for your cluster token.

|`registry.access.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for `odo` CLI.

|`sso.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|The `https://console.redhat.com/openshift` site uses authentication from `sso.redhat.com`

|`releases-art-rhcos.svc.ci.openshift.org`
|443, 80
|Required to access `qcow` image for bootstrap VM when installing on bare metal. 

|===
Operators require route access to perform health checks. Specifically, the
authentication and web console Operators connect to two routes to verify that
the routes work. If you are the cluster administrator and do not want to allow
`*.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`, then allow these routes:
+
* `oauth-openshift.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`
* `console-openshift-console.apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>`, or the hostname
that is specified in the `spec.route.hostname` field of the
`consoles.operator/cluster` object if the field is not empty.

. Allowlist the following URLs for optional third-party content:
+
[cols="3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|URL | Port | Function

|`registry.connect.redhat.com`
|443, 80
|Required for all third-party images and certified operators.

|`rhc4tp-prod-z8cxf-image-registry-us-east-1-evenkyleffocxqvofrk.s3.dualstack.us-east-1.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Provides access to container images hosted on `registry.connect.redhat.com`

|`oso-rhc4tp-docker-registry.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com`
|443, 80
|Required for Sonatype Nexus, F5 Big IP operators.
|===
+
. If you use a default Red Hat Network Time Protocol (NTP) server allow the following URLs:
* `1.rhel.pool.ntp.org`
* `2.rhel.pool.ntp.org`
* `3.rhel.pool.ntp.org`

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use a default Red Hat NTP server, verify the NTP server for your platform and allow it in your firewall.
====
