modules/configure-proxy-during-installation.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuration/configure-proxy.adoc
:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configure-proxy-during-installation_{context}"]
= Configuring a proxy during installation

When you are installing {product-title} by using the `roxctl` command-line interface (CLI) or Helm, you can specify your proxy configuration during the installation.

When you run the installer by using the `roxctl central generate` command, the installer generates the secrets and deployment configuration files for your environment. You can configure a proxy by editing the generated configuration secret (YAML) file. Currently, you cannot configure proxies by using the `roxctl` CLI. The configuration is stored in a Kubernetes secret and it is shared by both Central and Scanner.

.Procedure

. Open the configuration file `central/proxy-config-secret.yaml` from your deployment bundle directory.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are using Helm the configuration file is at `central/templates/proxy-config-secret.yaml`.
====
. Edit the fields you want to modify in the configuration file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  namespace: stackrox
  name: proxy-config
type: Opaque
stringData:
  config.yaml: |- <4>
    # # NOTE: Both central and scanner should be restarted if this secret is changed.
    # # While it is possible that some components will pick up the new proxy configuration
    # # without a restart, it cannot be guaranteed that this will apply to every possible
    # # integration etc.
    # url: http://proxy.name:port <2>
    # username: username <1>
    # password: password <1>
    # # If the following value is set to true, the proxy wil NOT be excluded for the default hosts:
    # # - *.stackrox, *.stackrox.svc
    # # - localhost, localhost.localdomain, 127.0.0.0/8, ::1
    # # - *.local
    # omitDefaultExcludes: false
    # excludes:  # hostnames (may include * components) for which you do not <3>
    # # want to use a proxy, like in-cluster repositories.
    # - some.domain
    # # The following configuration sections allow specifying a different proxy to be used for HTTP(S) connections.
    # # If they are omitted, the above configuration is used for HTTP(S) connections as well as TCP connections.
    # # If only the `http` section is given, it will be used for HTTPS connections as well.
    # # Note: in most cases, a single, global proxy configuration is sufficient.
    # http:
    #   url: http://http-proxy.name:port <2>
    #   username: username <1>
    #   password: password <1>
    # https:
    #   url: http://https-proxy.name:port <2>
    #   username: username <1>
    #   password: password <1>
----
<1>  Adding a `username` and a `password` is optional, both at the beginning and in the `http` and `https` sections.
<2> The `url` option supports the following URL schemes:
*** `http://` for an HTTP proxy.
*** `https://` for a TLS-enabled HTTP proxy.
*** `socks5://` for a SOCKS5 proxy.
<3> The `excludes` list can contain DNS names (with or without `*` wildcards), IP addresses, or IP blocks in CIDR notation (for example, `10.0.0.0/8`).
The values in this list are applied to all outgoing connections, regardless of protocol.
<4> The `|-` line in the `stringData` section indicates the start of the configuration data.
+
[NOTE]
====
* When you first open the file, all values are commented out (by using the `\#` sign at the beginning of the line).
Lines starting with double hash signs `# #` contain explanation of the configuration keys.
* Make sure that when you edit the fields, you maintain an indentation level of two spaces relative to the `config.yaml: |-` line.
====
. After editing the configuration file, you can proceed with your usual installation.
The updated configuration instructs {product-title} to use the proxy running on the provided address and the port number.

Commit message:

Fix file name and modify remark on Helm configuration for proxy settings

modules/configure-proxy-during-installation.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * configuration/configure-proxy.adoc
:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configure-proxy-during-installation_{context}"]
= Configuring a proxy during installation

When you are installing {product-title} by using the `roxctl` command-line interface (CLI) or Helm, you can specify your proxy configuration during the installation.

When you run the installer by using the `roxctl central generate` command, the installer generates the secrets and deployment configuration files for your environment. You can configure a proxy by editing the generated configuration secret (YAML) file. Currently, you cannot configure proxies by using the `roxctl` CLI. The configuration is stored in a Kubernetes secret and it is shared by both Central and Scanner.

.Procedure

. Open the configuration file `central/00-proxy-config-secret.yaml` from your deployment bundle directory.
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are using the Helm chart, follow the documentation contained in the file `values-private.yaml.example` to configure proxy related settings.
====
. Edit the fields you want to modify in the configuration file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  namespace: stackrox
  name: proxy-config
type: Opaque
stringData:
  config.yaml: |- <4>
    # # NOTE: Both central and scanner should be restarted if this secret is changed.
    # # While it is possible that some components will pick up the new proxy configuration
    # # without a restart, it cannot be guaranteed that this will apply to every possible
    # # integration etc.
    # url: http://proxy.name:port <2>
    # username: username <1>
    # password: password <1>
    # # If the following value is set to true, the proxy wil NOT be excluded for the default hosts:
    # # - *.stackrox, *.stackrox.svc
    # # - localhost, localhost.localdomain, 127.0.0.0/8, ::1
    # # - *.local
    # omitDefaultExcludes: false
    # excludes:  # hostnames (may include * components) for which you do not <3>
    # # want to use a proxy, like in-cluster repositories.
    # - some.domain
    # # The following configuration sections allow specifying a different proxy to be used for HTTP(S) connections.
    # # If they are omitted, the above configuration is used for HTTP(S) connections as well as TCP connections.
    # # If only the `http` section is given, it will be used for HTTPS connections as well.
    # # Note: in most cases, a single, global proxy configuration is sufficient.
    # http:
    #   url: http://http-proxy.name:port <2>
    #   username: username <1>
    #   password: password <1>
    # https:
    #   url: http://https-proxy.name:port <2>
    #   username: username <1>
    #   password: password <1>
----
<1>  Adding a `username` and a `password` is optional, both at the beginning and in the `http` and `https` sections.
<2> The `url` option supports the following URL schemes:
*** `http://` for an HTTP proxy.
*** `https://` for a TLS-enabled HTTP proxy.
*** `socks5://` for a SOCKS5 proxy.
<3> The `excludes` list can contain DNS names (with or without `*` wildcards), IP addresses, or IP blocks in CIDR notation (for example, `10.0.0.0/8`).
The values in this list are applied to all outgoing connections, regardless of protocol.
<4> The `|-` line in the `stringData` section indicates the start of the configuration data.
+
[NOTE]
====
* When you first open the file, all values are commented out (by using the `\#` sign at the beginning of the line).
Lines starting with double hash signs `# #` contain explanation of the configuration keys.
* Make sure that when you edit the fields, you maintain an indentation level of two spaces relative to the `config.yaml: |-` line.
====
. After editing the configuration file, you can proceed with your usual installation.
The updated configuration instructs {product-title} to use the proxy running on the provided address and the port number.
