modules/customize-certificates-replace-default-router.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/certificates/replacing-default-ingress-certificate.adoc

[id="replacing-default-ingress_{context}"]
= Replacing the default ingress certificate

You can replace the default ingress certificate for all
applications under the `.apps` subdomain. After you replace
the certificate, all applications, including the web console
and CLI, will have encryption provided by specified certificate.

.Prerequisites

* You must have a wildcard certificate and its private key,
both in the PEM format, for use.
* The certificate must have a `subjectAltName` extension of
`*.apps.<clustername>.<domain>`.

.Procedure

. Create a ConfigMap that includes the certificate authority used to signed the new certificate:
+
----
$ oc create configmap custom-ca \
     --from-file=ca-bundle.crt=</path/to/example-ca.crt> \//<1>
     -n openshift-config
----
<1> `</path/to/example-ca.crt>` is the path to the certificate authority file on your local file system.

. Update the cluster-wide proxy configuration with the newly created ConfigMap:
+
----
$ oc patch proxy/cluster \
     --type=merge \
     --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":"custom-ca"}}}'
----

. Create a secret that contains the wildcard certificate and key:
+
----
$ oc create secret tls <certificate> \//<1>
     --cert=</path/to/cert.crt> \//<2>
     --key=</path/to/cert.key> \//<3>
     -n openshift-ingress
----
<1> `<certificate>` is the name of the secret that will contain
the certificate and private key.
<2> `</path/to/cert.crt>` is the path to the certificate on your
local file system.
<3> `</path/to/cert.key>` is the path to the private key associated
with this certificate.

. Update the Ingress Controller configuration with the newly created
secret:
+
----
$ oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
     --type=merge -p \
     '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": "<certificate>"}}}' \//<1>
     -n openshift-ingress-operator
----
<1> Replace `<certificate>` with the name used for the secret in
the previous step.

Commit message:

Add warning using non publicly signed CAs

modules/customize-certificates-replace-default-router.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/certificates/replacing-default-ingress-certificate.adoc

[id="replacing-default-ingress_{context}"]
= Replacing the default ingress certificate

You can replace the default ingress certificate for all
applications under the `.apps` subdomain. After you replace
the certificate, all applications, including the web console
and CLI, will have encryption provided by specified certificate.

.Prerequisites

* You must have a wildcard certificate and its private key,
both in the PEM format, for use.
+
[WARNING]
====
The new certificate *must* be signed by a public certificate authority already
included in the CA bundle as provided by the container userspace.
====

* The certificate must have a `subjectAltName` extension of
`*.apps.<clustername>.<domain>`.

.Procedure

. Create a ConfigMap that includes the certificate authority used to signed the new certificate:
+
----
$ oc create configmap custom-ca \
     --from-file=ca-bundle.crt=</path/to/example-ca.crt> \//<1>
     -n openshift-config
----
<1> `</path/to/example-ca.crt>` is the path to the certificate authority file on your local file system.

. Update the cluster-wide proxy configuration with the newly created ConfigMap:
+
----
$ oc patch proxy/cluster \
     --type=merge \
     --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":"custom-ca"}}}'
----

. Create a secret that contains the wildcard certificate and key:
+
----
$ oc create secret tls <certificate> \//<1>
     --cert=</path/to/cert.crt> \//<2>
     --key=</path/to/cert.key> \//<3>
     -n openshift-ingress
----
<1> `<certificate>` is the name of the secret that will contain
the certificate and private key.
<2> `</path/to/cert.crt>` is the path to the certificate on your
local file system.
<3> `</path/to/cert.key>` is the path to the private key associated
with this certificate.

. Update the Ingress Controller configuration with the newly created
secret:
+
----
$ oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
     --type=merge -p \
     '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": "<certificate>"}}}' \//<1>
     -n openshift-ingress-operator
----
<1> Replace `<certificate>` with the name used for the secret in
the previous step.
