modules/dr-restoring-cluster-state.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * disaster_recovery/scenario-2-restoring-cluster-state.adoc

[id="dr-scenario-2-restoring-cluster-state_{context}"]
= Restoring to a previous cluster state

You can use a saved etcd snapshot to restore back to a previous cluster state.

.Prerequisites

* Access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* SSH access to master hosts.
* A backed up etcd snapshot.

.Procedure

. Prepare each master host in your cluster to be restored.
+
You should run the restore script on all of your master hosts within a short period of time so that the cluster members come up at about the same time and form a quorum. For this reason, it is recommended to stage each master host in a separate terminal, so that the restore script can then be started quickly on each.

.. Copy the etcd snapshot file to a master host.
+
This procedure assumes that you have copied a snapshot file called `snapshot.db` to the `/home/core/` directory of your master host.

.. Access the master host.

.. Set the `INITIAL_CLUSTER` variable to the list of members in the format of `<name>=<url>`. This variable will be passed to the restore script and must be exactly the same for each member.
+
----
[core@ip-10-0-143-125 ~]$ export INITIAL_CLUSTER="etcd-member-ip-10-0-143-125.ec2.internal=https://etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380,etcd-member-ip-10-0-35-108.ec2.internal=https://etcd-1.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380,etcd-member-ip-10-0-10-16.ec2.internal=https://etcd-2.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380"
----

.. Repeat these steps on your other master hosts, each in a separate terminal.

. Run the restore script on all of your master hosts.

.. Start the `etcd-snapshot-restore.sh` script on your first master host. Pass in two parameters: the path to the snapshot file and list of members, which is defined by the `INITIAL_CLUSTER` variable.
+
----
[core@ip-10-0-143-125 ~]$ sudo /usr/local/bin/etcd-snapshot-restore.sh /home/core/snapshot.db $INITIAL_CLUSTER
Creating asset directory ./assets
Downloading etcdctl binary..
etcdctl version: 3.3.10
API version: 3.3
Backing up /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd-member.yaml to ./assets/backup/
Stopping all static pods..
..stopping kube-scheduler-pod.yaml
..stopping kube-controller-manager-pod.yaml
..stopping kube-apiserver-pod.yaml
..stopping etcd-member.yaml
Stopping etcd..
Waiting for etcd-member to stop
Stopping kubelet..
Stopping all containers..
bd44e4bc942276eb1a6d4b48ecd9f5fe95570f54aa9c6b16939fa2d9b679e1ea
d88defb9da5ae623592b81619e3690faeb4fa645440e71c029812cb960ff586f
3920ced20723064a379739c4a586f909497a7b6705a5b3cf367d9b930f23a5f1
d470f7a2d962c90f3a21bcc021970bde96bc8908f317ec70f1c21720b322c25c
Backing up etcd data-dir..
Removing etcd data-dir /var/lib/etcd
Restoring etcd member etcd-member-ip-10-0-143-125.ec2.internal from snapshot..
2019-05-15 19:03:34.647589 I | pkg/netutil: resolving etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 to 10.0.143.125:2380
2019-05-15 19:03:34.883545 I | mvcc: restore compact to 361491
2019-05-15 19:03:34.915679 I | etcdserver/membership: added member cbe982c74cbb42f [https://etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380] to cluster 807ae3bffc8d69ca
Starting static pods..
..starting kube-scheduler-pod.yaml
..starting kube-controller-manager-pod.yaml
..starting kube-apiserver-pod.yaml
..starting etcd-member.yaml
Starting kubelet..
----

.. Once the restore starts, run the script on your other master hosts.

. Verify that the Machine Configs have been applied.
+
In a terminal that has access to the cluster as a `cluster-admin` user, run the following command.
+
----
$ oc get machineconfigpool
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING
master   rendered-master-50e7e00374e80b767fcc922bdfbc522b   True      False
----
+
When the snapshot has been applied, the `currentConfig` of the master will match the ID from when the etcd snapshot was taken. The `currentConfig` name for masters is in the format `rendered-master-<currentConfig>`.

. Verify that all master hosts have started and joined the cluster.

.. Access a master host and connect to the running etcd container.
+
----
[core@ip-10-0-143-125 ~] id=$(sudo crictl ps --name etcd-member | awk 'FNR==2{ print $1}') && sudo crictl exec -it $id /bin/sh
----

.. In the etcd container, export variables needed for connecting to etcd.
+
----
sh-4.2# export ETCDCTL_API=3 ETCDCTL_CACERT=/etc/ssl/etcd/ca.crt ETCDCTL_CERT=$(find /etc/ssl/ -name *peer*crt) ETCDCTL_KEY=$(find /etc/ssl/ -name *peer*key)
----
+
.. In the etcd container, execute `etcdctl member list` and verify that the three members show as started.
+
----
sh-4.2#  etcdctl member list -w table

+------------------+---------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
|        ID        | STATUS  |                   NAME                   |                            PEER ADDRS                            |       CLIENT ADDRS        |
+------------------+---------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 29e461db6be4eaaa | started | etcd-member-ip-10-0-164-170.ec2.internal | https://etcd-2.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 | https://10.0.164.170:2379 |
|  cbe982c74cbb42f | started | etcd-member-ip-10-0-143-125.ec2.internal | https://etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 | https://10.0.143.125:2379 |
| a752f80bcb0da3e8 | started |   etcd-member-ip-10-0-156-2.ec2.internal | https://etcd-1.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 |   https://10.0.156.2:2379 |
+------------------+---------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
----
+
Note that it may take up to 10 minutes for each new member to start.

Commit message:

BZ-1782034: Clarifying to use the same etcd snapshot upon restore
Conflicts:
	modules/dr-restoring-cluster-state.adoc

modules/dr-restoring-cluster-state.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * disaster_recovery/scenario-2-restoring-cluster-state.adoc

[id="dr-scenario-2-restoring-cluster-state_{context}"]
= Restoring to a previous cluster state

You can use a saved etcd snapshot to restore back to a previous cluster state.

.Prerequisites

* Access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* SSH access to master hosts.
* A backed up etcd snapshot.
+
[NOTE]
====
You must use the same etcd snapshot file on all master hosts in the cluster.
====

.Procedure

. Prepare each master host in your cluster to be restored.
+
You should run the restore script on all of your master hosts within a short period of time so that the cluster members come up at about the same time and form a quorum. For this reason, it is recommended to stage each master host in a separate terminal, so that the restore script can then be started quickly on each.

.. Copy the etcd snapshot file to a master host.
+
This procedure assumes that you have copied a snapshot file called `snapshot.db` to the `/home/core/` directory of your master host.

.. Access the master host.

.. Set the `INITIAL_CLUSTER` variable to the list of members in the format of `<name>=<url>`. This variable will be passed to the restore script and must be exactly the same for each member.
+
----
[core@ip-10-0-143-125 ~]$ export INITIAL_CLUSTER="etcd-member-ip-10-0-143-125.ec2.internal=https://etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380,etcd-member-ip-10-0-35-108.ec2.internal=https://etcd-1.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380,etcd-member-ip-10-0-10-16.ec2.internal=https://etcd-2.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380"
----

.. Repeat these steps on your other master hosts, each in a separate terminal. Be sure to use the same etcd snapshot file on each master host.

. Run the restore script on all of your master hosts.

.. Start the `etcd-snapshot-restore.sh` script on your first master host. Pass in two parameters: the path to the snapshot file and list of members, which is defined by the `INITIAL_CLUSTER` variable.
+
----
[core@ip-10-0-143-125 ~]$ sudo /usr/local/bin/etcd-snapshot-restore.sh /home/core/snapshot.db $INITIAL_CLUSTER
Creating asset directory ./assets
Downloading etcdctl binary..
etcdctl version: 3.3.10
API version: 3.3
Backing up /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd-member.yaml to ./assets/backup/
Stopping all static pods..
..stopping kube-scheduler-pod.yaml
..stopping kube-controller-manager-pod.yaml
..stopping kube-apiserver-pod.yaml
..stopping etcd-member.yaml
Stopping etcd..
Waiting for etcd-member to stop
Stopping kubelet..
Stopping all containers..
bd44e4bc942276eb1a6d4b48ecd9f5fe95570f54aa9c6b16939fa2d9b679e1ea
d88defb9da5ae623592b81619e3690faeb4fa645440e71c029812cb960ff586f
3920ced20723064a379739c4a586f909497a7b6705a5b3cf367d9b930f23a5f1
d470f7a2d962c90f3a21bcc021970bde96bc8908f317ec70f1c21720b322c25c
Backing up etcd data-dir..
Removing etcd data-dir /var/lib/etcd
Restoring etcd member etcd-member-ip-10-0-143-125.ec2.internal from snapshot..
2019-05-15 19:03:34.647589 I | pkg/netutil: resolving etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 to 10.0.143.125:2380
2019-05-15 19:03:34.883545 I | mvcc: restore compact to 361491
2019-05-15 19:03:34.915679 I | etcdserver/membership: added member cbe982c74cbb42f [https://etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380] to cluster 807ae3bffc8d69ca
Starting static pods..
..starting kube-scheduler-pod.yaml
..starting kube-controller-manager-pod.yaml
..starting kube-apiserver-pod.yaml
..starting etcd-member.yaml
Starting kubelet..
----

.. Once the restore starts, run the script on your other master hosts.

. Verify that the Machine Configs have been applied.
+
In a terminal that has access to the cluster as a `cluster-admin` user, run the following command.
+
----
$ oc get machineconfigpool
NAME     CONFIG                                             UPDATED   UPDATING
master   rendered-master-50e7e00374e80b767fcc922bdfbc522b   True      False
----
+
When the snapshot has been applied, the `currentConfig` of the master will match the ID from when the etcd snapshot was taken. The `currentConfig` name for masters is in the format `rendered-master-<currentConfig>`.

. Verify that all master hosts have started and joined the cluster.

.. Access a master host and connect to the running etcd container.
+
----
[core@ip-10-0-143-125 ~] id=$(sudo crictl ps --name etcd-member | awk 'FNR==2{ print $1}') && sudo crictl exec -it $id /bin/sh
----

.. In the etcd container, export variables needed for connecting to etcd.
+
----
sh-4.2# export ETCDCTL_API=3 ETCDCTL_CACERT=/etc/ssl/etcd/ca.crt ETCDCTL_CERT=$(find /etc/ssl/ -name *peer*crt) ETCDCTL_KEY=$(find /etc/ssl/ -name *peer*key)
----
+
.. In the etcd container, execute `etcdctl member list` and verify that the three members show as started.
+
----
sh-4.2#  etcdctl member list -w table

+------------------+---------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
|        ID        | STATUS  |                   NAME                   |                            PEER ADDRS                            |       CLIENT ADDRS        |
+------------------+---------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
| 29e461db6be4eaaa | started | etcd-member-ip-10-0-164-170.ec2.internal | https://etcd-2.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 | https://10.0.164.170:2379 |
|  cbe982c74cbb42f | started | etcd-member-ip-10-0-143-125.ec2.internal | https://etcd-0.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 | https://10.0.143.125:2379 |
| a752f80bcb0da3e8 | started |   etcd-member-ip-10-0-156-2.ec2.internal | https://etcd-1.clustername.devcluster.openshift.com:2380 |   https://10.0.156.2:2379 |
+------------------+---------+------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
----
+
Note that it may take up to 10 minutes for each new member to start.
