modules/eco-self-node-remediation-operator-installation-web-console.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *nodes/nodes/eco-self-node-remediation-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installing-self-node-remediation-operator-using-web-console_{context}"]
= Installing the Self Node Remediation Operator by using the web console

You can use the {product-title} web console to install the Self Node Remediation Operator.

.Prerequisites

* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.
. Search for the Self Node Remediation Operator from the list of available Operators, and then click *Install*.
. Keep the default selection of *Installation mode* and *namespace* to ensure that the Operator is installed to the `openshift-operators` namespace.
. Click *Install*.

.Verification

To confirm that the installation is successful:

. Navigate to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page.
. Check that the Operator is installed in the `openshift-operators` namespace and its status is `Succeeded`.

If the Operator is not installed successfully:

. Navigate to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page and inspect the `Status` column for any errors or failures.
. Navigate to the *Workloads* -> *Pods* page and check the logs in any pods in the `self-node-remediation-controller-manager` project that are reporting issues.

Commit message:

TELCODOCS-843: Remediation, Fencing, and Maintentance concept details added
TELCODOCS-843: Applied feedback from Michael

TELCODOCS-843: Applied extra feedback from Michael

TELCODOCS-843: Peer review feedback added

modules/eco-self-node-remediation-operator-installation-web-console.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *nodes/nodes/eco-self-node-remediation-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installing-self-node-remediation-operator-using-web-console_{context}"]
= Installing the Self Node Remediation Operator by using the web console

You can use the {product-title} web console to install the Self Node Remediation Operator.

[NOTE]
====
The Node Health Check Operator also installs the Self Node Remediation Operator as a default remediation provider.
====

.Prerequisites

* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.
. Search for the Self Node Remediation Operator from the list of available Operators, and then click *Install*.
. Keep the default selection of *Installation mode* and *namespace* to ensure that the Operator is installed to the `openshift-operators` namespace.
. Click *Install*.

.Verification

To confirm that the installation is successful:

. Navigate to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page.
. Check that the Operator is installed in the `openshift-operators` namespace and its status is `Succeeded`.

If the Operator is not installed successfully:

. Navigate to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page and inspect the `Status` column for any errors or failures.
. Navigate to the *Workloads* -> *Pods* page and check the logs in any pods in the `self-node-remediation-controller-manager` project that are reporting issues.
