modules/efk-logging-elasticsearch-limits.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/efk-logging-elasticsearch.adoc

[id="efk-logging-elasticsearch-limits_{context}"]
= Configuring Elasticsearch CPU and memory limits

Each component specification allows for adjustments to both the CPU and memory limits.
You should not have to manually adjust these values as the Elasticsearch
Operator sets values sufficient for your environment.

.Prerequisites

* Cluster logging and Elasticsearch must be installed.

.Procedure

. Edit the Cluster Logging Custom Resource (CR) in the `openshift-logging` project:
+
----
$ oc edit ClusterLogging instance
----
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogging"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
....
spec:
    logStore:
      type: "elasticsearch"
      elasticsearch:
        resources: <1>
          limits:
            cpu: "4000m"
            memory: "4Gi"
          requests:
            cpu: "100m"
            memory: "1Gi"
----
<1> Specify the CPU and memory limits as needed. If you leave these values blank,
the Elasticsearch Operator sets default values that should be sufficient for most deployments.

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.1] The ES pod went to Error state and after few hours the elasticsearch containers not running in the ES pods

modules/efk-logging-elasticsearch-limits.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/efk-logging-elasticsearch.adoc

[id="efk-logging-elasticsearch-limits_{context}"]
= Configuring Elasticsearch CPU and memory limits

Each component specification allows for adjustments to both the CPU and memory limits.
You should not have to manually adjust these values as the Elasticsearch
Operator sets values sufficient for your environment.

Each Elasticsearch node can operate with a lower memory setting though this is *not* recommended for production deployments. 
For production use, you should have no less than the default 16Gi allocated to each Pod. Preferably you should allocate as much as possible, up to 64Gi per Pod.

.Prerequisites

* Cluster logging and Elasticsearch must be installed.

.Procedure

. Edit the Cluster Logging Custom Resource (CR) in the `openshift-logging` project:
+
----
$ oc edit ClusterLogging instance
----
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogging"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
....
spec:
    logStore:
      type: "elasticsearch"
      elasticsearch:
        resources: <1>
          limits:
            memory: "16Gi"
          requests:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "16Gi"
----
<1> Specify the CPU and memory limits as needed. If you leave these values blank,
the Elasticsearch Operator sets default values that should be sufficient for most deployments.
