modules/go-compatibility-and-support-matrix.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * gitops/gitops-release-notes.adoc

= Compatibility and support matrix

Some features in this release are currently in link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview]. These experimental features are not intended for production use.

In the table, features are marked with the following statuses:

* *TP*: _Technology Preview_
* *GA*: _General Availability_

|===
|*OpenShift GitOps* 6+|*Component Versions*|*OpenShift Versions*|*Support status*

|*Version*|*kam*|*Helm*|*Kustomize*|*Argo CD*|*ApplicationSet*|*Dex*||
|1.6.0 |0.0.46 TP |3.8.1 GA |4.4.1 GA |2.4.5 GA |2.4.5 GA |2.30.3 GA |4.8-4.11 |GA
|1.5.0 |0.0.42 TP |3.8.0 GA |4.4.1 GA |2.3.3 GA |0.4.1 TP |2.30.3 GA |4.8-4.11 |GA
|1.4.0 |0.0.41 TP |3.7.1 GA |4.2.0 GA |2.2.2 GA |0.2.0 TP |2.30.0 GA |4.7-4.11 |GA
|1.3.0|0.0.40|3.6.0|4.2.0|2.1.2|0.2.0|2.28.0|4.7-4.9|GA
|1.2.0|0.0.38|3.5.0|3.9.4|2.0.5|0.1.0|N/A|4.8|GA
|1.1.0|0.0.32|3.5.0|3.9.4|2.0.0|N/A|N/A|4.7|GA
|===

[NOTE]
====
To use {gitops-title} v1.3 on {product-title} 4.6, do a fresh installation of {gitops-title}. There is no upgrade path from {gitops-title} 1.0 (TP) on OpenShift 4.6.
====

Commit message:

Cherrypick-RN-4.8: Added 1.7.0 RN and updated the matrix table

modules/go-compatibility-and-support-matrix.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * gitops/gitops-release-notes.adoc

= Compatibility and support matrix

Some features in this release are currently in link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview]. These experimental features are not intended for production use.

In the table, features are marked with the following statuses:

* *TP*: _Technology Preview_
* *GA*: _General Availability_

|===
|*OpenShift GitOps* 8+|*Component Versions*|*OpenShift Versions*

|*Version* |*kam*    |*Helm*  |*Kustomize* |*Argo CD*|*ApplicationSet* |*Dex*     |*RH SSO* |*Notifications Controller*|
|1.7.0    |0.0.46 TP |3.10.0 GA|4.5.7 GA   |2.5.4 GA |2.4.5 GA       |2.35.1 GA |7.5.1 GA |2.4.5 TP|4.8-4.11
|1.6.0    |0.0.46 TP |3.8.1 GA|4.4.1 GA   |2.4.5 GA |2.4.5 GA       |2.30.3 GA |7.5.1 GA |2.4.5 TP|4.8-4.10
|1.5.0    |0.0.42 TP|3.8.0 GA|4.4.1 GA   |2.3.3 GA |0.4.1 TP        |2.30.3 GA |7.5.1 GA ||4.8-4.10
|1.4.0    |0.0.41 TP|3.7.1 GA|4.2.0 GA   |2.2.2 GA |0.2.0 TP        |2.30.0 GA |7.4.0 GA ||4.7-4.9
|1.3.0    |0.0.40 TP|3.6.0 GA|4.2.0 GA   |2.1.2 GA |0.2.0 TP        |2.28.0 GA |7.4.0 GA ||4.7-4.9

|===

* "kam" is an abbreviation for {gitops-title} Application Manager (kam).
* "RH SSO" is an abbreviation for Red Hat SSO.
* The *Environments* page in the *Developer* perspective of the {product-title} web console is also in Technology Preview.

// Writer, to update this support matrix, refer to https://spaces.redhat.com/display/GITOPS/GitOps+Component+Matrix
