modules/images-update-global-pull-secret.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * openshift_images/using-image-pull-secrets
// * installing/install_config/customizations.adoc

[id="images-update-global-pull-secret_{context}"]
= Updating the global cluster pull secret

You can update the global pull secret for your cluster.

[WARNING]
====
Cluster resources must adjust to the new pull secret, which can temporarily limit the usability of the cluster.
====

[WARNING]
====
Updating the global pull secret will cause node reboots while the Machine Config Operator (MCO) syncs the changes.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have a new or modified pull secret file to upload.
* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

* Enter the following command to update the global pull secret for your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc set data secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<pull-secret-location> <1>
----
<1> Provide the path to the new pull secret file.

This update is rolled out to all nodes, which can take some time depending on the size of your cluster. During this time, nodes are drained and pods are rescheduled on the remaining nodes.

//Also referred to as the cluster-wide pull secret.

Commit message:

BZ1939165: Steps to update global pull secret

modules/images-update-global-pull-secret.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * openshift_images/using-image-pull-secrets
// * installing/install_config/customizations.adoc

[id="images-update-global-pull-secret_{context}"]
= Updating the global cluster pull secret

You can update the global pull secret for your cluster by either replacing the current pull secret or appending a new pull secret.

[WARNING]
====
Cluster resources must adjust to the new pull secret, which can temporarily limit the usability of the cluster.
====

[WARNING]
====
Updating the global pull secret will cause node reboots while the Machine Config Operator (MCO) syncs the changes.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure
. Optional: To append a new pull secret to the existing pull secret, complete the following steps:

.. Enter the following command to download the pull secret:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config --template='{{index .data ".dockerconfigjson" | base64decode}}' ><pull_secret_location> <1>
----
<1> Provide the path to the pull secret file.

.. Enter the following command to add the new pull secret:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc registry login --registry="<registry>" \ <1>
--auth-basic="<username>:<password>" \ <2>
--to=<pull_secret_location> <3>
----
<1> Provide the new registry.
<2> Provide the credentials of the new registry.
<3> Provide the path to the pull secret file.
+
Alternatively, you can perform a manual update to the pull secret file.

. Enter the following command to update the global pull secret for your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc set data secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<pull_secret_location> <1>
----
<1> Provide the path to the new pull secret file.

This update is rolled out to all nodes, which can take some time depending on the size of your cluster. During this time, nodes are drained and pods are rescheduled on the remaining nodes.

//Also referred to as the cluster-wide pull secret.
