modules/insights-operator-manual-upload.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/remote_health_monitoring/remote-health-reporting-from-restricted-network.adoc



[id="insights-operator-manual-upload_{context}"]
= Uploading an Insights Operator archive

You can manually upload an Insights Operator archive to link:https://cloud.redhat.com[cloud.redhat.com] to diagnose potential issues.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to {product-title} as `cluster-admin`.
* You have a workstation with unrestricted internet access.
* You have created a copy of the Insights Operator archive.

.Procedure

. Download the `dockerconfig.json` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config --to=.
----
. Copy your `"cloud.openshift.com"` `"auth"` token from the `dockerconfig.json` file:
+
[source,json,subs="+quotes"]
----
{    
  "auths": {        
    "cloud.openshift.com": {            
      "auth": "_<your_token>_",
      "email": "asd@redhat.com"
    }
}
----


. Upload the archive to link:https://cloud.redhat.com[cloud.redhat.com]:
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ curl -v -H "User-Agent: insights-operator/one10time200gather184a34f6a168926d93c330 cluster/_<cluster_id>_" -H "Authorization: Bearer _<your_token>_" -F "upload=@_<path_to_archive>_; type=application/vnd.redhat.openshift.periodic+tar" https://cloud.redhat.com/api/ingress/v1/upload
----
where `_<cluster_id>_` is your cluster ID, `_<your_token>_` is the token from your pull secret, and `_<path_to_archive>_` is the path to the Insights Operator archive. 
+
If the operation is successful, the command returns a `"request_id"` and `"account_number"`:
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
* Connection #0 to host cloud.redhat.com left intact
{"request_id":"393a7cf1093e434ea8dd4ab3eb28884c","upload":{"account_number":"6274079"}}%
----

.Verification steps

. Log in to link:https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift[].

. Click the *Clusters* menu in the left pane.

. To display the details of the cluster, click the cluster name.

. Open the *Insights Advisor* tab of the cluster.
+
If the upload was successful, the tab displays one of the following:
+
* *Your cluster passed all recommendations*, if Insights Advisor did not identify any issues.

* A list of issues that Insights Advisor has detected, prioritized by risk (low, moderate, important, and critical).

Commit message:

CCXDEV-5371 Cloud migration link fixes

modules/insights-operator-manual-upload.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/remote_health_monitoring/remote-health-reporting-from-restricted-network.adoc



[id="insights-operator-manual-upload_{context}"]
= Uploading an Insights Operator archive

You can manually upload an Insights Operator archive to {link-cloud-redhat-com} to diagnose potential issues.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to {product-title} as `cluster-admin`.
* You have a workstation with unrestricted internet access.
* You have created a copy of the Insights Operator archive.

.Procedure

. Download the `dockerconfig.json` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config --to=.
----
. Copy your `"cloud.openshift.com"` `"auth"` token from the `dockerconfig.json` file:
+
[source,json,subs="+quotes"]
----
{    
  "auths": {        
    "cloud.openshift.com": {            
      "auth": "_<your_token>_",
      "email": "asd@redhat.com"
    }
}
----


. Upload the archive to {link-cloud-redhat-com}:
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ curl -v -H "User-Agent: insights-operator/one10time200gather184a34f6a168926d93c330 cluster/_<cluster_id>_" -H "Authorization: Bearer _<your_token>_" -F "upload=@_<path_to_archive>_; type=application/vnd.redhat.openshift.periodic+tar" https://cloud.redhat.com/api/ingress/v1/upload
----
where `_<cluster_id>_` is your cluster ID, `_<your_token>_` is the token from your pull secret, and `_<path_to_archive>_` is the path to the Insights Operator archive. 
+
If the operation is successful, the command returns a `"request_id"` and `"account_number"`:
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
* Connection #0 to host cloud.redhat.com left intact
{"request_id":"393a7cf1093e434ea8dd4ab3eb28884c","upload":{"account_number":"6274079"}}%
----

.Verification steps

. Log in to {link-ocm}

. Click the *Clusters* menu in the left pane.

. To display the details of the cluster, click the cluster name.

. Open the *{insights-title}* tab of the cluster.
+
If the upload was successful, the tab displays one of the following:
+
* *Your cluster passed all recommendations*, if {insights-title} did not identify any issues.

* A list of issues that {insights-title} has detected, prioritized by risk (low, moderate, important, and critical).
