modules/insights-operator-enable-obfuscation.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/remote_health_monitoring/remote-health-reporting-from-restricted-network.adoc



[id="insights-operator-enable-obfuscation_{context}"]
= Enabling Insights Operator data obfuscation

You can enable obfuscation to mask sensitive and identifiable IPv4 addresses and cluster base domains that the Insights Operator sends to link:https://cloud.redhat.com[cloud.redhat.com].

[WARNING]
====
Although this feature is available, Red Hat recommends keeping obfuscation disabled for a more effective support experience.
====

Obfuscation assigns non-identifying values to cluster IPv4 addresses, and uses a translation table that is retained in memory to change IP addresses to their obfuscated versions throughout the Insights Operator archive before uploading the data to link:https://cloud.redhat.com[cloud.redhat.com].

For cluster base domains, obfuscation changes the base domain to a hardcoded substring. For example, `cluster-api.openshift.example.com` becomes `cluster-api.<CLUSTER_BASE_DOMAIN>`.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the {product-title} web console as `cluster-admin`.

.Procedure

. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Secrets*.
. Search for the *support* secret using the *Search by name* field. If it does not exist, click *Create* -> *Key/value secret* to create it.
. Click the *Options* menu {kebab}, and then click *Edit Secret*.
. Click *Add Key/Value*.
. Create a key named `enableGlobalObfuscation` with a value of `true`, and click *Save*.
. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Pods*
. Select the `openshift-insights` project.
. Find the `insights-operator` pod.
. To restart the `insights-operator` pod, click the *Options* menu {kebab}, and then click *Delete Pod*.

Commit message:

CCXDEV-5371 Cloud migration link fixes

modules/insights-operator-enable-obfuscation.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/remote_health_monitoring/remote-health-reporting-from-restricted-network.adoc



[id="insights-operator-enable-obfuscation_{context}"]
= Enabling Insights Operator data obfuscation

You can enable obfuscation to mask sensitive and identifiable IPv4 addresses and cluster base domains that the Insights Operator sends to {link-cloud-redhat-com}.

[WARNING]
====
Although this feature is available, Red Hat recommends keeping obfuscation disabled for a more effective support experience.
====

Obfuscation assigns non-identifying values to cluster IPv4 addresses, and uses a translation table that is retained in memory to change IP addresses to their obfuscated versions throughout the Insights Operator archive before uploading the data to {link-cloud-redhat-com}.

For cluster base domains, obfuscation changes the base domain to a hardcoded substring. For example, `cluster-api.openshift.example.com` becomes `cluster-api.<CLUSTER_BASE_DOMAIN>`.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the {product-title} web console as `cluster-admin`.

.Procedure

. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Secrets*.
. Search for the *support* secret using the *Search by name* field. If it does not exist, click *Create* -> *Key/value secret* to create it.
. Click the *Options* menu {kebab}, and then click *Edit Secret*.
. Click *Add Key/Value*.
. Create a key named `enableGlobalObfuscation` with a value of `true`, and click *Save*.
. Navigate to *Workloads* -> *Pods*
. Select the `openshift-insights` project.
. Find the `insights-operator` pod.
. To restart the `insights-operator` pod, click the *Options* menu {kebab}, and then click *Delete Pod*.
