modules/installing-rhv-example-install-config-yaml.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_rhv/installing-rhv-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_rhv/installing-rhv-default.adoc

[id="installing-rhv-example-install-config-yaml_{context}"]
= Example `install-config.yaml` files for {rh-virtualization-first}

You can customize the {product-title} cluster the installation program creates by changing the parameters and parameter values in the `install-config.yaml` file.

The following examples are specific to installing {product-title} on {rh-virtualization}.

`install-config.yaml` is located in `<installation_directory>`, which you specified when you ran the following command.
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./openshift-install create install-config --dir <installation_directory>
----

[NOTE]
====
* These example files are provided for reference only. You must obtain your
`install-config.yaml` file by using the installation program.
* Changing the `install-config.yaml` file can increase the resources your cluster requires. Verify that your {rh-virtualization} environment has those additional resources. Otherwise, the installation or cluster will fail.
====

[discrete]
== Example default `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      sparse: false <1>
      format: raw   <2>
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
      ovirt:
        sparse: false <1>
        format: raw   <2>
  replicas: 3
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: my-cluster
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
  networkType: OpenShiftSDN
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
  networkType: OVNKubernetes
endif::openshift-origin[]
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  ovirt:
    api_vips: 
      - 10.0.0.10
    ingress_vips: 
      - 10.0.0.11
    ovirt_cluster_id: 68833f9f-e89c-4891-b768-e2ba0815b76b
    ovirt_storage_domain_id: ed7b0f4e-0e96-492a-8fff-279213ee1468
    ovirt_network_name: ovirtmgmt
    vnicProfileID: 3fa86930-0be5-4052-b667-b79f0a729692
publish: External
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed12345 AAAA...
----

<1> Setting this option to `false` enables preallocation of disks. The default is `true`. Setting `sparse` to `true` with `format` set to `raw` is not available for block storage domains. The `raw` format writes the entire virtual disk to the underlying physical disk.
<2> Can be set to `cow` or `raw`. The default is `cow`. The `cow` format is optimized for virtual machines.
+
[NOTE]
====
Preallocating disks on file storage domains writes zeroes to the file. This might not actually preallocate disks depending on the underlying storage.
====
+
[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `api_vip` and `ingress_vip` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `api_vips` and `ingress_vips` configuration settings.
====

[discrete]
== Example minimal `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
metadata:
  name: test-cluster
platform:
  ovirt:
    api_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.230
    ingress_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.232
    ovirt_cluster_id: 68833f9f-e89c-4891-b768-e2ba0815b76b
    ovirt_storage_domain_id: ed7b0f4e-0e96-492a-8fff-279213ee1468
    ovirt_network_name: ovirtmgmt
    vnicProfileID: 3fa86930-0be5-4052-b667-b79f0a729692
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed12345 AAAA...
----

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `api_vip` and `ingress_vip` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `api_vips` and `ingress_vips` configuration settings.
====

[discrete]
== Example Custom machine pools in an `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
controlPlane:
  name: master
  platform:
    ovirt:
      cpu:
        cores: 4
        sockets: 2
      memoryMB: 65536
      osDisk:
        sizeGB: 100
      vmType: server
  replicas: 3
compute:
- name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      cpu:
        cores: 4
        sockets: 4
      memoryMB: 65536
      osDisk:
        sizeGB: 200
      vmType: server
  replicas: 5
metadata:
  name: test-cluster
platform:
  ovirt:
    api_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.230
    ingress_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.232
    ovirt_cluster_id: 68833f9f-e89c-4891-b768-e2ba0815b76b
    ovirt_storage_domain_id: ed7b0f4e-0e96-492a-8fff-279213ee1468
    ovirt_network_name: ovirtmgmt
    vnicProfileID: 3fa86930-0be5-4052-b667-b79f0a729692
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
----

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `api_vip` and `ingress_vip` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `api_vips` and `ingress_vips` configuration settings.
====

[discrete]
== Example non-enforcing affinity group

It is recommended to add a non-enforcing affinity group to distribute the control plane and workers, if possible, to use as much of the cluster as possible.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  ovirt:
    affinityGroups:
    - description: AffinityGroup to place each compute machine on a separate host
      enforcing: true
      name: compute
      priority: 3
    - description: AffinityGroup to place each control plane machine on a separate host
      enforcing: true
      name: controlplane
      priority: 5
    - description: AffinityGroup to place worker nodes and control plane nodes on separate hosts
      enforcing: false
      name: openshift
      priority: 5
compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames:
      - compute
      - openshift
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames:
      - controlplane
      - openshift
  replicas: 3
----

[discrete]
== Example removing all affinity groups for a non-production lab setup

For non-production lab setups, you must remove all affinity groups to concentrate the {product-title} cluster on the few hosts you have.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  ovirt:
    affinityGroups: []
compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames: []
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames: []
  replicas: 3
----

Commit message:

change default networktype to OVNKubernets

modules/installing-rhv-example-install-config-yaml.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_rhv/installing-rhv-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_rhv/installing-rhv-default.adoc

[id="installing-rhv-example-install-config-yaml_{context}"]
= Example `install-config.yaml` files for {rh-virtualization-first}

You can customize the {product-title} cluster the installation program creates by changing the parameters and parameter values in the `install-config.yaml` file.

The following examples are specific to installing {product-title} on {rh-virtualization}.

`install-config.yaml` is located in `<installation_directory>`, which you specified when you ran the following command.
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./openshift-install create install-config --dir <installation_directory>
----

[NOTE]
====
* These example files are provided for reference only. You must obtain your
`install-config.yaml` file by using the installation program.
* Changing the `install-config.yaml` file can increase the resources your cluster requires. Verify that your {rh-virtualization} environment has those additional resources. Otherwise, the installation or cluster will fail.
====

[discrete]
== Example default `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      sparse: false <1>
      format: raw   <2>
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
      ovirt:
        sparse: false <1>
        format: raw   <2>
  replicas: 3
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: my-cluster
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
  networkType: OVNKubernetes <3>
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
platform:
  ovirt:
    api_vips: 
      - 10.0.0.10
    ingress_vips: 
      - 10.0.0.11
    ovirt_cluster_id: 68833f9f-e89c-4891-b768-e2ba0815b76b
    ovirt_storage_domain_id: ed7b0f4e-0e96-492a-8fff-279213ee1468
    ovirt_network_name: ovirtmgmt
    vnicProfileID: 3fa86930-0be5-4052-b667-b79f0a729692
publish: External
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed12345 AAAA...
----

<1> Setting this option to `false` enables preallocation of disks. The default is `true`. Setting `sparse` to `true` with `format` set to `raw` is not available for block storage domains. The `raw` format writes the entire virtual disk to the underlying physical disk.
+
[NOTE]
====
Preallocating disks on file storage domains writes zeroes to the file. This might not actually preallocate disks depending on the underlying storage.
====
<2> Can be set to `cow` or `raw`. The default is `cow`. The `cow` format is optimized for virtual machines.
<3> The cluster network plug-in to install. The supported values are `OVNKubernetes` (default value) and `OpenShiftSDN`.

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `api_vip` and `ingress_vip` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `api_vips` and `ingress_vips` configuration settings.
====

[discrete]
== Example minimal `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
metadata:
  name: test-cluster
platform:
  ovirt:
    api_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.230
    ingress_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.232
    ovirt_cluster_id: 68833f9f-e89c-4891-b768-e2ba0815b76b
    ovirt_storage_domain_id: ed7b0f4e-0e96-492a-8fff-279213ee1468
    ovirt_network_name: ovirtmgmt
    vnicProfileID: 3fa86930-0be5-4052-b667-b79f0a729692
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed12345 AAAA...
----

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `api_vip` and `ingress_vip` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `api_vips` and `ingress_vips` configuration settings.
====

[discrete]
== Example Custom machine pools in an `install-config.yaml` file

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
controlPlane:
  name: master
  platform:
    ovirt:
      cpu:
        cores: 4
        sockets: 2
      memoryMB: 65536
      osDisk:
        sizeGB: 100
      vmType: server
  replicas: 3
compute:
- name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      cpu:
        cores: 4
        sockets: 4
      memoryMB: 65536
      osDisk:
        sizeGB: 200
      vmType: server
  replicas: 5
metadata:
  name: test-cluster
platform:
  ovirt:
    api_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.230
    ingress_vips: 
      - 10.46.8.232
    ovirt_cluster_id: 68833f9f-e89c-4891-b768-e2ba0815b76b
    ovirt_storage_domain_id: ed7b0f4e-0e96-492a-8fff-279213ee1468
    ovirt_network_name: ovirtmgmt
    vnicProfileID: 3fa86930-0be5-4052-b667-b79f0a729692
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
----

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `api_vip` and `ingress_vip` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `api_vips` and `ingress_vips` configuration settings.
====

[discrete]
== Example non-enforcing affinity group

It is recommended to add a non-enforcing affinity group to distribute the control plane and workers, if possible, to use as much of the cluster as possible.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  ovirt:
    affinityGroups:
    - description: AffinityGroup to place each compute machine on a separate host
      enforcing: true
      name: compute
      priority: 3
    - description: AffinityGroup to place each control plane machine on a separate host
      enforcing: true
      name: controlplane
      priority: 5
    - description: AffinityGroup to place worker nodes and control plane nodes on separate hosts
      enforcing: false
      name: openshift
      priority: 5
compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames:
      - compute
      - openshift
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames:
      - controlplane
      - openshift
  replicas: 3
----

[discrete]
== Example removing all affinity groups for a non-production lab setup

For non-production lab setups, you must remove all affinity groups to concentrate the {product-title} cluster on the few hosts you have.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  ovirt:
    affinityGroups: []
compute:
- architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: worker
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames: []
  replicas: 3
controlPlane:
  architecture: amd64
  hyperthreading: Enabled
  name: master
  platform:
    ovirt:
      affinityGroupsNames: []
  replicas: 3
----
