modules/installation-installer-provisioned-vsphere-config-yaml.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-restricted-networks-vmc.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations"]
:network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vmc-network-customizations"]
:network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-vmc"]
:restricted:
endif::[]

[id="installation-installer-provisioned-vsphere-config-yaml_{context}"]
= Sample install-config.yaml file for an installer-provisioned VMware vSphere cluster

You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about
your {product-title} cluster's platform or modify the values of the required
parameters.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com <1>
compute: <2>
- hyperthreading: Enabled <3>
  name: worker
  replicas: 3
  platform:
    vsphere: <4>
      cpus: 2
      coresPerSocket: 2
      memoryMB: 8192
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGB: 120
controlPlane: <2>
  hyperthreading: Enabled <3>
  name: master
  replicas: 3
  platform:
    vsphere: <4>
      cpus: 4
      coresPerSocket: 2
      memoryMB: 16384
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGB: 120
metadata:
  name: cluster <5>
ifdef::network[]
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
  networkType: OpenShiftSDN
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
  networkType: OVNKubernetes
endif::openshift-origin[]
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
endif::network[]
platform:
  vsphere:
    vcenter: your.vcenter.server
    username: username
    password: password
    datacenter: datacenter
    defaultDatastore: datastore
    folder: folder
    resourcePool: resource_pool <6>
    diskType: thin <7>
    network: VM_Network
    cluster: vsphere_cluster_name <8>
    apiVIPs: 
      - api_vip
    ingressVIPs: 
      - ingress_vip
ifdef::restricted[]
    clusterOSImage: http://mirror.example.com/images/rhcos-47.83.202103221318-0-vmware.x86_64.ova <9>
endif::restricted[]
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
fips: false
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifndef::restricted[]
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
endif::restricted[]
ifdef::restricted[]
pullSecret: '{"auths":{"<local_registry>": {"auth": "<credentials>","email": "you@example.com"}}}' <10>
endif::restricted[]
sshKey: 'ssh-ed25519 AAAA...'
ifdef::restricted[]
additionalTrustBundle: | <11>
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
imageContentSources: <12>
- mirrors:
  - <local_registry>/<local_repository_name>/release
  source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release
- mirrors:
  - <local_registry>/<local_repository_name>/release
  source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
endif::restricted[]
----
<1> The base domain of the cluster. All DNS records must be sub-domains of this
base and include the cluster name.
<2> The `controlPlane` section is a single mapping, but the `compute` section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the `compute` section must begin with a hyphen, `-`, and the first line of the `controlPlane` section must not. Only one control plane pool is used.
<3> Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or
`hyperthreading`. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled
to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by
setting the parameter value to `Disabled`. If you disable simultaneous
multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster
machines.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you disable simultaneous multithreading, ensure that your capacity planning
accounts for the dramatically decreased machine performance.
Your machines must use at least 8 CPUs and 32 GB of RAM if you disable
simultaneous multithreading.
====
<4> Optional: Provide additional configuration for the machine pool parameters for the compute and control plane machines.
<5> The cluster name that you specified in your DNS records.
<6> Optional: Provide an existing resource pool for machine creation. If you do not specify a value, the installation program uses the root resource pool of the vSphere cluster.
<7> The vSphere disk provisioning method.
<8> The vSphere cluster to install the {product-title} cluster in.
ifdef::restricted[]
<9> The location of the {op-system-first} image that is accessible from the bastion server.
<10> For `<local_registry>`, specify the registry domain name, and optionally the
port, that your mirror registry uses to serve content. For example
`registry.example.com` or `registry.example.com:5000`. For `<credentials>`,
specify the base64-encoded user name and password for your mirror registry.
<11> Provide the contents of the certificate file that you used for your mirror registry.
<12> Provide the `imageContentSources` section from the output of the command to mirror the repository.
endif::restricted[]

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `apiVIP` and `ingressVIP` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `apiVIPs` and `ingressVIPs` configuration settings.
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations"]
:!network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vmc-network-customizations"]
:!network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-vmc"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]

Commit message:

change default networktype to OVNKubernets

modules/installation-installer-provisioned-vsphere-config-yaml.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-restricted-networks-vmc.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations"]
:network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vmc-network-customizations"]
:network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-vmc"]
:restricted:
endif::[]

[id="installation-installer-provisioned-vsphere-config-yaml_{context}"]
= Sample install-config.yaml file for an installer-provisioned VMware vSphere cluster

You can customize the install-config.yaml file to specify more details about
your {product-title} cluster's platform or modify the values of the required
parameters.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com <1>
compute: <2>
- hyperthreading: Enabled <3>
  name: worker
  replicas: 3
  platform:
    vsphere: <4>
      cpus: 2
      coresPerSocket: 2
      memoryMB: 8192
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGB: 120
controlPlane: <2>
  hyperthreading: Enabled <3>
  name: master
  replicas: 3
  platform:
    vsphere: <4>
      cpus: 4
      coresPerSocket: 2
      memoryMB: 16384
      osDisk:
        diskSizeGB: 120
metadata:
  name: cluster <5>
ifdef::network[]
networking:
  clusterNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.128.0.0/14
    hostPrefix: 23
  machineNetwork:
  - cidr: 10.0.0.0/16
  networkType: OVNKubernetes <9>
  serviceNetwork:
  - 172.30.0.0/16
endif::network[]
platform:
  vsphere:
    vcenter: your.vcenter.server
    username: username
    password: password
    datacenter: datacenter
    defaultDatastore: datastore
    folder: folder
    resourcePool: resource_pool <6>
    diskType: thin <7>
    network: VM_Network
    cluster: vsphere_cluster_name <8>
    apiVIPs: 
      - api_vip
    ingressVIPs: 
      - ingress_vip
ifdef::restricted[]
    clusterOSImage: http://mirror.example.com/images/rhcos-47.83.202103221318-0-vmware.x86_64.ova <9>
endif::restricted[]
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
fips: false
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifndef::restricted[]
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
endif::restricted[]
ifdef::restricted[]
pullSecret: '{"auths":{"<local_registry>": {"auth": "<credentials>","email": "you@example.com"}}}' <10>
endif::restricted[]
sshKey: 'ssh-ed25519 AAAA...'
ifdef::restricted[]
additionalTrustBundle: | <11>
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
imageContentSources: <12>
- mirrors:
  - <local_registry>/<local_repository_name>/release
  source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release
- mirrors:
  - <local_registry>/<local_repository_name>/release
  source: quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
endif::restricted[]
----
<1> The base domain of the cluster. All DNS records must be sub-domains of this
base and include the cluster name.
<2> The `controlPlane` section is a single mapping, but the `compute` section is a sequence of mappings. To meet the requirements of the different data structures, the first line of the `compute` section must begin with a hyphen, `-`, and the first line of the `controlPlane` section must not. Only one control plane pool is used.
<3> Whether to enable or disable simultaneous multithreading, or
`hyperthreading`. By default, simultaneous multithreading is enabled
to increase the performance of your machines' cores. You can disable it by
setting the parameter value to `Disabled`. If you disable simultaneous
multithreading in some cluster machines, you must disable it in all cluster
machines.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you disable simultaneous multithreading, ensure that your capacity planning
accounts for the dramatically decreased machine performance.
Your machines must use at least 8 CPUs and 32 GB of RAM if you disable
simultaneous multithreading.
====
<4> Optional: Provide additional configuration for the machine pool parameters for the compute and control plane machines.
<5> The cluster name that you specified in your DNS records.
<6> Optional: Provide an existing resource pool for machine creation. If you do not specify a value, the installation program uses the root resource pool of the vSphere cluster.
<7> The vSphere disk provisioning method.
<8> The vSphere cluster to install the {product-title} cluster in.
ifdef::network[]
<9> The cluster network plug-in to install. The supported values are `OVNKubernetes` (default value) and `OpenShiftSDN`.
endif::network[]
ifdef::restricted[]
<9> The location of the {op-system-first} image that is accessible from the bastion server.
<10> For `<local_registry>`, specify the registry domain name, and optionally the
port, that your mirror registry uses to serve content. For example
`registry.example.com` or `registry.example.com:5000`. For `<credentials>`,
specify the base64-encoded user name and password for your mirror registry.
<11> Provide the contents of the certificate file that you used for your mirror registry.
<12> Provide the `imageContentSources` section from the output of the command to mirror the repository.
endif::restricted[]

[NOTE]
====
In {product-title} 4.12 and later, the `apiVIP` and `ingressVIP` configuration settings are deprecated. Instead, use a list format to enter values in the `apiVIPs` and `ingressVIPs` configuration settings.
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere-installer-provisioned-network-customizations"]
:!network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vmc-network-customizations"]
:!network:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-installer-provisioned-vsphere"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-vmc"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
