modules/installation-infrastructure-user-infra.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:ibm-z:
endif::[]

[id="installation-infrastructure-user-infra_{context}"]
= Creating the user-provisioned infrastructure

Before you deploy an {product-title} cluster that uses user-provisioned
infrastructure, you must create the underlying infrastructure.

.Prerequistes

* Review the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/4128421[OpenShift Container Platform 4.x Tested Integrations]
page before you create the supporting infrastructure for your cluster.

.Procedure

ifdef::ibm-z[]
. Set up static IP addresses.
. Set up an FTP server.
endif::ibm-z[]
ifndef::ibm-z[]
. Configure DHCP.
endif::ibm-z[]

. Provision the required load balancers.

. Configure the ports for your machines.

. Configure DNS.

. Ensure network connectivity.

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:!ibm-z:
endif::[]

Commit message:

Add static IP to 4.3 installs (OSDOCS-727)

modules/installation-infrastructure-user-infra.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:ibm-z:
endif::[]

[id="installation-infrastructure-user-infra_{context}"]
= Creating the user-provisioned infrastructure

Before you deploy an {product-title} cluster that uses user-provisioned
infrastructure, you must create the underlying infrastructure.

.Prerequistes

* Review the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/4128421[OpenShift Container Platform 4.x Tested Integrations]
page before you create the supporting infrastructure for your cluster.

.Procedure

ifdef::ibm-z[]
. Set up static IP addresses.
. Set up an FTP server.
endif::ibm-z[]
ifndef::ibm-z[]
. Configure DHCP or set static IP addresses on each node.
endif::ibm-z[]

. Provision the required load balancers.

. Configure the ports for your machines.

. Configure DNS.

. Ensure network connectivity.

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:!ibm-z:
endif::[]
