modules/installation-user-infra-machines-static-network.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_platform_agnostic/installing-platform-agnostic.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_power/installing-ibm-power.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_power/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-static-network_{context}"]
= Advanced {op-system} installation reference

This section illustrates the networking configuration and other advanced options that allow you to modify the {op-system-first} manual installation process. The following tables describe the kernel arguments and command-line options you can use with the {op-system} live installer and the `coreos-installer` command.

[discrete]
== Routing and bonding options at {op-system} boot prompt

If you install {op-system} from an ISO image, you can add kernel arguments manually when you boot that image to configure the node's networking. If no networking arguments are used, the installation defaults to using DHCP.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When adding networking arguments, you must also add the `rd.neednet=1` kernel argument.
====

The following table describes how to use `ip=`, `nameserver=`, and `bond=` kernel arguments for live ISO installs.

[NOTE]
====
Ordering is important when adding kernel arguments: `ip=`, `nameserver=`, and then `bond=`.
====

.Routing and bonding options for ISO

The following table provides examples for configuring networking of your {op-system-first} nodes. These are networking options that are passed to the `dracut` tool during system boot. For more information about the networking options supported by `dracut`, see the `dracut.cmdline` manual page.

|===
|Description |Examples

a|To configure an IP address, either use DHCP (`ip=dhcp`) or set an individual
static IP address (`ip=<host_ip>`). Then identify the DNS server IP address (`nameserver=<dns_ip>`) on each node. This example sets: +

* The node's IP address to `10.10.10.2` +
* The gateway address to `10.10.10.254` +
* The netmask to `255.255.255.0` +
* The hostname to `core0.example.com` +
* The DNS server address to `4.4.4.41`

a|
----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
nameserver=4.4.4.41
----

a|Specify multiple network interfaces by specifying multiple `ip=` entries.
a|
----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
ip=10.10.10.3::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0:none
----

a|Disable DHCP on a single interface, such as when there are two or more network interfaces and only one interface is being used.
a|
----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
ip=::::core0.example.com:enp2s0:none
----

a|You can combine DHCP
and static IP configurations on systems with
multiple network interfaces.
a|
----
ip=enp1s0:dhcp
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0:none
----

a|Optional: You can configure VLANs on individual interfaces by using the `vlan=` parameter.
a| 
To configure a VLAN on a network interface and use a static IP address:

----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0.100:none
vlan=enp2s0.100:enp2s0
----

To configure a VLAN on a network interface and to use DHCP:

----
ip=enp2s0.100:dhcp
vlan=enp2s0.100:enp2s0
----

a|You can provide multiple DNS servers by adding a `nameserver=` entry for each server.
a|
----
nameserver=1.1.1.1
nameserver=8.8.8.8
----

a|Optional: Bonding multiple network interfaces to a single interface is supported
using the `bond=` option.  In these two examples:

* The syntax for configuring a bonded interface is: `bond=name[:network_interfaces][:options]`
* _name_ is the bonding device name (`bond0`), _network_interfaces_
represents a comma-separated list of physical (ethernet) interfaces (`em1,em2`),
and _options_ is a comma-separated list of bonding options. Enter `modinfo bonding` to see available options.
* When you
create a bonded interface using `bond=`, you must specify how the IP address
is assigned and other
information for the bonded interface.
a|
To configure the bonded interface to use DHCP, set the bond's IP address
to `dhcp`. For example:

----
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
ip=bond0:dhcp
----

To configure the bonded interface to use a static IP address,
enter the specific IP address you want and related information. For example:

----
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:bond0:none
----

a|Optional: You can configure VLANs on bonded interfaces by using the `vlan=` parameter.
a|
To configure the bonded interface with a VLAN and to use DHCP:

----
ip=bond0.100:dhcp
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
vlan=bond0.100:bond0
----

To configure the bonded interface with a VLAN and to use a static IP address:

----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:bond0.100:none
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
vlan=bond0.100:bond0
----

|===

[discrete]
== `coreos.inst` boot options for ISO or PXE install

While you can pass most standard installation boot arguments to the live installer, there are several arguments that are specific to the {op-system} live installer.

* For ISO, these options can be added by interrupting the {op-system} installer.

* For PXE or iPXE, these options must be added to the `APPEND` line before starting the PXE kernel. You cannot interrupt a live PXE install.

The following table shows the {op-system} live installer boot options for ISO and PXE installs.

.`coreos.inst` boot options
|===
|Argument |Description

a|`coreos.inst.install_dev`

a|Required. The block device on the system to install to. It is recommended to use the full path, such as `/dev/sda`, although `sda` is allowed.

a|`coreos.inst.ignition_url`

a|Optional: The URL of the Ignition config to embed into the installed system. If no URL is specified, no Ignition config is embedded.

a|`coreos.inst.save_partlabel`

a|Optional: Comma-separated labels of partitions to preserve during the install. Glob-style wildcards are permitted. The specified partitions do not need to exist.

a|`coreos.inst.save_partindex`

a|Optional: Comma-separated indexes of partitions to preserve during the install. Ranges `m`-`n` are permitted, and either `m` or `n` can be omitted. The specified partitions do not need to exist.

a|`coreos.inst.insecure`

a|Optional: Permits the OS image that is specified by `coreos.inst.image_url` to be unsigned.

a|`coreos.inst.image_url`

a|Optional: Download and install the specified {op-system} image.

* This argument should not be used in production environments and is intended for debugging purposes only.

* While this argument can be used to install a version of {op-system} that does not match the live media, it is recommended that you instead use the media that matches the version you want to install.

* If you are using `coreos.inst.image_url`, you must also use `coreos.inst.insecure`. This is because the bare-metal media are not GPG-signed for {product-title}.

* Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.

a|`coreos.inst.skip_reboot`

a|Optional: The system will not reboot after installing. Once the install finishes, you will receive a prompt that allows you to inspect what is happening during installation. This argument should not be used in production environments and is intended for debugging purposes only.

a|`coreos.inst.platform_id`

a| Optional: The Ignition platform ID of the platform the {op-system} image is being installed on. Default is `metal`. This option determines whether or not to request an Ignition config from the cloud provider, such as VMware. For example: `coreos.inst.platform_id=vmware`.

a|`ignition.config.url`

a|Optional: The URL of the Ignition config for the live boot. For example, this can be used to customize how `coreos-installer` is invoked, or to run code before or after the installation. This is different from `coreos.inst.ignition_url`, which is the Ignition config for the installed system.
|===

[discrete]
== `coreos-installer` options for ISO install

You can also install {op-system} by invoking the `coreos-installer` command directly from the command line. The kernel arguments in the previous table provide a shortcut for automatically invoking `coreos-installer` at boot time, but you can pass similar arguments directly to `coreos-installer` when running it from a shell prompt.

The following table shows the options and subcommands you can pass to the `coreos-installer` command from a shell prompt during a live install.

.`coreos-installer` command-line options, arguments, and subcommands
|===

2+|_Command-line options_

|*Option* |*Description*

a| `-u`, `--image-url <url>`
a|Specify the image URL manually.

a| `-f`, `--image-file <path>`
a|Specify a local image file manually.

a|`-i,` `--ignition-file <path>`
a|Embed an Ignition config from a file.

a|`-I`, `--ignition-url <URL>`
a|Embed an Ignition config from a URL.

a|`--ignition-hash <digest>`
a|Digest `type-value` of the Ignition config.

a|`-p`, `--platform <name>`
a|Override the Ignition platform ID.

a|`--append-karg <arg>...`
a|Append the default kernel argument.

a|`--delete-karg <arg>...`
a|Delete the default kernel argument.

a|`-n`, `--copy-network`
a|Copy the network configuration from the install environment.

a|`--network-dir <path>`
a|For use with `-n`. Default is `/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/`.

a|`--save-partlabel <lx>..`
a|Save partitions with this label glob.

a|`--save-partindex <id>...`
a|Save partitions with this number or range.

a|`--offline`
a|Force offline installation.

a|`--insecure`
a|Skip signature verification.

a|`--insecure-ignition`
a|Allow Ignition URL without HTTPS or hash.

a|`--architecture <name>`
a|Target CPU architecture. Default is `x86_64`.

a|`--preserve-on-error`
a|Do not clear partition table on error.

a|`-h`, `--help`
a|Print help information.

2+|_Command-line argument_

|*Argument* |*Description*

a|`<device>`
a|The destination device.

2+|_coreos-installer embedded Ignition commands_

|*Command* |*Description*

a|`$ coreos-installer iso ignition embed <options> --ignition-file <file_path> <ISO_image>`
a|Embed an Ignition config in an ISO image.

a|`coreos-installer iso ignition show <options> <ISO_image>`
|Show the embedded Ignition config from an ISO image.

a|`coreos-installer iso ignition remove <options> <ISO_image>`
a|Remove the embedded Ignition config from an ISO image.

2+|_coreos-installer ISO Ignition options_

|*Option* |*Description*

a|`-f`, `--force`
a|Overwrite an existing Ignition config.

a|`-i`, `--ignition-file <path>`
a|The Ignition config to be used. Default is `stdin`.

a|`-o`, `--output <path>`
a|Write the ISO to a new output file.

a|`-h`, `--help`
a|Print help information.

2+|_coreos-installer PXE Ignition commands_

|*Command* |*Description*

2+|Note that not all of these options are accepted by all subcommands.

a|`coreos-installer pxe ignition wrap <options>`
a|Wrap an Ignition config in an image.

a|`coreos-installer pxe ignition unwrap <options> <image_name>`
a|Show the wrapped Ignition config in an image.

a|`coreos-installer pxe ignition unwrap <options> <initrd_name>`
a|Show the wrapped Ignition config in an `initrd` image.

2+|_coreos-installer PXE Ignition options_

|*Option* |*Description*

a|`-i`, `--ignition-file <path>`
a|The Ignition config to be used. Default is `stdin`.

a|`-o,` `--output <path>`
a|Write the ISO to a new output file.

a|`-h`, `--help`
a|Print help information.

|===

Commit message:

Bug 1907885: clarify what configuration is copied by --copy-network

modules/installation-user-infra-machines-static-network.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_platform_agnostic/installing-platform-agnostic.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_power/installing-ibm-power.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_power/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-static-network_{context}"]
= Advanced {op-system} installation reference

This section illustrates the networking configuration and other advanced options that allow you to modify the {op-system-first} manual installation process. The following tables describe the kernel arguments and command-line options you can use with the {op-system} live installer and the `coreos-installer` command.

[discrete]
== Routing and bonding options at {op-system} boot prompt

If you install {op-system} from an ISO image, you can add kernel arguments manually when you boot that image to configure the node's networking. If no networking arguments are used, the installation defaults to using DHCP.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When adding networking arguments, you must also add the `rd.neednet=1` kernel argument.
====

The following table describes how to use `ip=`, `nameserver=`, and `bond=` kernel arguments for live ISO installs.

[NOTE]
====
Ordering is important when adding kernel arguments: `ip=`, `nameserver=`, and then `bond=`.
====

.Routing and bonding options for ISO

The following table provides examples for configuring networking of your {op-system-first} nodes. These are networking options that are passed to the `dracut` tool during system boot. For more information about the networking options supported by `dracut`, see the `dracut.cmdline` manual page.

|===
|Description |Examples

a|To configure an IP address, either use DHCP (`ip=dhcp`) or set an individual
static IP address (`ip=<host_ip>`). Then identify the DNS server IP address (`nameserver=<dns_ip>`) on each node. This example sets: +

* The node's IP address to `10.10.10.2` +
* The gateway address to `10.10.10.254` +
* The netmask to `255.255.255.0` +
* The hostname to `core0.example.com` +
* The DNS server address to `4.4.4.41`

a|
----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
nameserver=4.4.4.41
----

a|Specify multiple network interfaces by specifying multiple `ip=` entries.
a|
----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
ip=10.10.10.3::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0:none
----

a|Disable DHCP on a single interface, such as when there are two or more network interfaces and only one interface is being used.
a|
----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp1s0:none
ip=::::core0.example.com:enp2s0:none
----

a|You can combine DHCP
and static IP configurations on systems with
multiple network interfaces.
a|
----
ip=enp1s0:dhcp
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0:none
----

a|Optional: You can configure VLANs on individual interfaces by using the `vlan=` parameter.
a|
To configure a VLAN on a network interface and use a static IP address:

----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:enp2s0.100:none
vlan=enp2s0.100:enp2s0
----

To configure a VLAN on a network interface and to use DHCP:

----
ip=enp2s0.100:dhcp
vlan=enp2s0.100:enp2s0
----

a|You can provide multiple DNS servers by adding a `nameserver=` entry for each server.
a|
----
nameserver=1.1.1.1
nameserver=8.8.8.8
----

a|Optional: Bonding multiple network interfaces to a single interface is supported
using the `bond=` option.  In these two examples:

* The syntax for configuring a bonded interface is: `bond=name[:network_interfaces][:options]`
* _name_ is the bonding device name (`bond0`), _network_interfaces_
represents a comma-separated list of physical (ethernet) interfaces (`em1,em2`),
and _options_ is a comma-separated list of bonding options. Enter `modinfo bonding` to see available options.
* When you
create a bonded interface using `bond=`, you must specify how the IP address
is assigned and other
information for the bonded interface.
a|
To configure the bonded interface to use DHCP, set the bond's IP address
to `dhcp`. For example:

----
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
ip=bond0:dhcp
----

To configure the bonded interface to use a static IP address,
enter the specific IP address you want and related information. For example:

----
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:bond0:none
----

a|Optional: You can configure VLANs on bonded interfaces by using the `vlan=` parameter.
a|
To configure the bonded interface with a VLAN and to use DHCP:

----
ip=bond0.100:dhcp
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
vlan=bond0.100:bond0
----

To configure the bonded interface with a VLAN and to use a static IP address:

----
ip=10.10.10.2::10.10.10.254:255.255.255.0:core0.example.com:bond0.100:none
bond=bond0:em1,em2:mode=active-backup
vlan=bond0.100:bond0
----

|===

[discrete]
== `coreos.inst` boot options for ISO or PXE install

While you can pass most standard installation boot arguments to the live installer, there are several arguments that are specific to the {op-system} live installer.

* For ISO, these options can be added by interrupting the {op-system} installer.

* For PXE or iPXE, these options must be added to the `APPEND` line before starting the PXE kernel. You cannot interrupt a live PXE install.

The following table shows the {op-system} live installer boot options for ISO and PXE installs.

.`coreos.inst` boot options
|===
|Argument |Description

a|`coreos.inst.install_dev`

a|Required. The block device on the system to install to. It is recommended to use the full path, such as `/dev/sda`, although `sda` is allowed.

a|`coreos.inst.ignition_url`

a|Optional: The URL of the Ignition config to embed into the installed system. If no URL is specified, no Ignition config is embedded.

a|`coreos.inst.save_partlabel`

a|Optional: Comma-separated labels of partitions to preserve during the install. Glob-style wildcards are permitted. The specified partitions do not need to exist.

a|`coreos.inst.save_partindex`

a|Optional: Comma-separated indexes of partitions to preserve during the install. Ranges `m`-`n` are permitted, and either `m` or `n` can be omitted. The specified partitions do not need to exist.

a|`coreos.inst.insecure`

a|Optional: Permits the OS image that is specified by `coreos.inst.image_url` to be unsigned.

a|`coreos.inst.image_url`

a|Optional: Download and install the specified {op-system} image.

* This argument should not be used in production environments and is intended for debugging purposes only.

* While this argument can be used to install a version of {op-system} that does not match the live media, it is recommended that you instead use the media that matches the version you want to install.

* If you are using `coreos.inst.image_url`, you must also use `coreos.inst.insecure`. This is because the bare-metal media are not GPG-signed for {product-title}.

* Only HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.

a|`coreos.inst.skip_reboot`

a|Optional: The system will not reboot after installing. Once the install finishes, you will receive a prompt that allows you to inspect what is happening during installation. This argument should not be used in production environments and is intended for debugging purposes only.

a|`coreos.inst.platform_id`

a| Optional: The Ignition platform ID of the platform the {op-system} image is being installed on. Default is `metal`. This option determines whether or not to request an Ignition config from the cloud provider, such as VMware. For example: `coreos.inst.platform_id=vmware`.

a|`ignition.config.url`

a|Optional: The URL of the Ignition config for the live boot. For example, this can be used to customize how `coreos-installer` is invoked, or to run code before or after the installation. This is different from `coreos.inst.ignition_url`, which is the Ignition config for the installed system.
|===

[discrete]
== `coreos-installer` options for ISO install

You can also install {op-system} by invoking the `coreos-installer` command directly from the command line. The kernel arguments in the previous table provide a shortcut for automatically invoking `coreos-installer` at boot time, but you can pass similar arguments directly to `coreos-installer` when running it from a shell prompt.

The following table shows the options and subcommands you can pass to the `coreos-installer` command from a shell prompt during a live install.

.`coreos-installer` command-line options, arguments, and subcommands
|===

2+|_Command-line options_

|*Option* |*Description*

a| `-u`, `--image-url <url>`
a|Specify the image URL manually.

a| `-f`, `--image-file <path>`
a|Specify a local image file manually.

a|`-i,` `--ignition-file <path>`
a|Embed an Ignition config from a file.

a|`-I`, `--ignition-url <URL>`
a|Embed an Ignition config from a URL.

a|`--ignition-hash <digest>`
a|Digest `type-value` of the Ignition config.

a|`-p`, `--platform <name>`
a|Override the Ignition platform ID.

a|`--append-karg <arg>...`
a|Append the default kernel argument.

a|`--delete-karg <arg>...`
a|Delete the default kernel argument.

a|`-n`, `--copy-network`
a|Copy the network configuration from the install environment.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `--copy-network` option only copies networking configuration found under `/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections`. In particular, it does not copy the system hostname.
====

a|`--network-dir <path>`
a|For use with `-n`. Default is `/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/`.

a|`--save-partlabel <lx>..`
a|Save partitions with this label glob.

a|`--save-partindex <id>...`
a|Save partitions with this number or range.

a|`--offline`
a|Force offline installation.

a|`--insecure`
a|Skip signature verification.

a|`--insecure-ignition`
a|Allow Ignition URL without HTTPS or hash.

a|`--architecture <name>`
a|Target CPU architecture. Default is `x86_64`.

a|`--preserve-on-error`
a|Do not clear partition table on error.

a|`-h`, `--help`
a|Print help information.

2+|_Command-line argument_

|*Argument* |*Description*

a|`<device>`
a|The destination device.

2+|_coreos-installer embedded Ignition commands_

|*Command* |*Description*

a|`$ coreos-installer iso ignition embed <options> --ignition-file <file_path> <ISO_image>`
a|Embed an Ignition config in an ISO image.

a|`coreos-installer iso ignition show <options> <ISO_image>`
|Show the embedded Ignition config from an ISO image.

a|`coreos-installer iso ignition remove <options> <ISO_image>`
a|Remove the embedded Ignition config from an ISO image.

2+|_coreos-installer ISO Ignition options_

|*Option* |*Description*

a|`-f`, `--force`
a|Overwrite an existing Ignition config.

a|`-i`, `--ignition-file <path>`
a|The Ignition config to be used. Default is `stdin`.

a|`-o`, `--output <path>`
a|Write the ISO to a new output file.

a|`-h`, `--help`
a|Print help information.

2+|_coreos-installer PXE Ignition commands_

|*Command* |*Description*

2+|Note that not all of these options are accepted by all subcommands.

a|`coreos-installer pxe ignition wrap <options>`
a|Wrap an Ignition config in an image.

a|`coreos-installer pxe ignition unwrap <options> <image_name>`
a|Show the wrapped Ignition config in an image.

a|`coreos-installer pxe ignition unwrap <options> <initrd_name>`
a|Show the wrapped Ignition config in an `initrd` image.

2+|_coreos-installer PXE Ignition options_

|*Option* |*Description*

a|`-i`, `--ignition-file <path>`
a|The Ignition config to be used. Default is `stdin`.

a|`-o,` `--output <path>`
a|Write the ISO to a new output file.

a|`-h`, `--help`
a|Print help information.

|===
