modules/installation-osp-creating-image.adoc, before:

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-installer.adoc
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-installer-custom.adoc
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-installer-kuryr.adoc

[id="installation-osp-creating-image_{context}"]
= Creating the {op-system-first} image

The {product-title} installation program requires that a {op-system-first} image be present in the {rh-openstack-first} cluster. Retrieve the latest {op-system} image, then upload it using the {rh-openstack} CLI.

.Prerequisites

* The {rh-openstack} CLI is installed.

.Procedure

. Log in to the Red Hat customer portal's https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/290[Product Downloads page].

. Under *Version*, select version 4.2.0 for RHEL 8.

. Download the _Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS - OpenStack Image (QCOW)_ and decompress the image.
+
[NOTE]
====
You must decompress the OpenStack image before the cluster can use it.
====

. From the image that you downloaded, create an image that is named `rhcos` in your cluster by using the {rh-openstack} CLI:
+
----
$ openstack image create --container-format=bare --disk-format=qcow2 --file rhcos-${RHCOS_VERSION}-openstack.qcow2 rhcos
----
+
[CAUTION]
If the installation program finds multiple images with the same name, it chooses one of them at random. To avoid this behavior, create unique names for resources in {rh-openstack}.

After you upload the image to {rh-openstack}, it is available to the installation program.

Commit message:

Add note for RHCOS image versions for OSP

modules/installation-osp-creating-image.adoc, after:

//Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-installer.adoc
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-installer-custom.adoc
// * installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-installer-kuryr.adoc

[id="installation-osp-creating-image_{context}"]
= Creating the {op-system-first} image

The {product-title} installation program requires that a {op-system-first} image be present in the {rh-openstack-first} cluster. Retrieve the latest {op-system} image, then upload it using the {rh-openstack} CLI.

.Prerequisites

* The {rh-openstack} CLI is installed.

.Procedure

. Log in to the Red Hat customer portal's https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/290[Product Downloads page].

. Under *Version*, select version 4.2.0 for RHEL 8.

. Download the _Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS - OpenStack Image (QCOW)_.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The {op-system} images might not change with every release of {product-title}.
You must download images with the highest version that is less than or equal to
the {product-title} version that you install. Use the image versions that match
your {product-title} version if they are available.
====

. Decompress the image.
+
[NOTE]
====
You must decompress the OpenStack image before the cluster can use it.
====

. From the image that you downloaded, create an image that is named `rhcos` in your cluster by using the {rh-openstack} CLI:
+
----
$ openstack image create --container-format=bare --disk-format=qcow2 --file rhcos-${RHCOS_VERSION}-openstack.qcow2 rhcos
----
+
[CAUTION]
If the installation program finds multiple images with the same name, it chooses one of them at random. To avoid this behavior, create unique names for resources in {rh-openstack}.

After you upload the image to {rh-openstack}, it is available to the installation program.
