modules/installation-gcp-user-infra-adding-ingress.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp_user_infra/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc

[id="installation-gcp-user-infra-adding-ingress_{context}"]
= Optional: Adding the ingress DNS records

If you removed the DNS Zone configuration when creating Kubernetes manifests and
generating Ignition configs, you must manually create DNS records that point at
the ingress load balancer. You can create either a wildcard
`*.apps.{baseDomain}.` or specific records. You can use A, CNAME, and other
records per your requirements.

.Prerequisites

* Configure a GCP account.
* Remove the DNS Zone configuration when creating Kubernetes manifests and
generating Ignition configs.
* Create and configure a VPC and assocated subnets in GCP.
* Create and configure networking and load balancers in GCP.
* Create control plane and compute roles.
* Create the bootstrap machine.
* Create the control plane machines.
* Create the worker machines.

.Procedure

. Wait for the Ingress router to create a load balancer and populate the `EXTERNAL-IP` field:
+
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress get service router-default
NAME             TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP      PORT(S)                      AGE
router-default   LoadBalancer   172.30.18.154   35.233.157.184   80:32288/TCP,443:31215/TCP   98
----

. Add the A record to your public and private zones:
+
----
$ export ROUTER_IP=`oc -n openshift-ingress get service router-default --no-headers | awk '{print $4}'`

$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${ROUTER_IP} --name \*.apps.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 300 --type A --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}

$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${ROUTER_IP} --name \*.apps.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 300 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
----
+
If you prefer to add explicit domains instead of using a wildcard, you can
create entries for each of the cluster's current routes:
+
----
$ oc get --all-namespaces -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{range .status.ingress[*]}{.host}{"\n"}{end}{end}' routes
oauth-openshift.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
console-openshift-console.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
downloads-openshift-console.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
alertmanager-main-openshift-monitoring.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
grafana-openshift-monitoring.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
prometheus-k8s-openshift-monitoring.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
----

Commit message:

Adding note that you must manually create Ingress DNS records if proxy is enabled

modules/installation-gcp-user-infra-adding-ingress.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp_user_infra/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc

[id="installation-gcp-user-infra-adding-ingress_{context}"]
= Optional: Adding the ingress DNS records

If you removed the DNS Zone configuration when creating Kubernetes manifests and
generating Ignition configs, or if you enabled the cluster-wide proxy, you must manually create DNS records that point to
the host name of the router load balancer service. You can create either a wildcard
`*.apps.{baseDomain}.` or specific records. You can use A, CNAME, and other
records per your requirements.

.Prerequisites

* Configure a GCP account.
* Remove the DNS Zone configuration when creating Kubernetes manifests and
generating Ignition configs.
* Create and configure a VPC and assocated subnets in GCP.
* Create and configure networking and load balancers in GCP.
* Create control plane and compute roles.
* Create the bootstrap machine.
* Create the control plane machines.
* Create the worker machines.

.Procedure

. Wait for the Ingress router to create a load balancer and populate the `EXTERNAL-IP` field:
+
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress get service router-default
NAME             TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP      PORT(S)                      AGE
router-default   LoadBalancer   172.30.18.154   35.233.157.184   80:32288/TCP,443:31215/TCP   98
----

. Add the A record to your public and private zones:
+
----
$ export ROUTER_IP=`oc -n openshift-ingress get service router-default --no-headers | awk '{print $4}'`

$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${ROUTER_IP} --name \*.apps.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 300 --type A --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}

$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${ROUTER_IP} --name \*.apps.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 300 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
----
+
If you prefer to add explicit domains instead of using a wildcard, you can
create entries for each of the cluster's current routes:
+
----
$ oc get --all-namespaces -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{range .status.ingress[*]}{.host}{"\n"}{end}{end}' routes
oauth-openshift.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
console-openshift-console.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
downloads-openshift-console.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
alertmanager-main-openshift-monitoring.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
grafana-openshift-monitoring.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
prometheus-k8s-openshift-monitoring.apps.your.cluster.domain.example.com
----
