modules/installation-user-infra-machines-advanced.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_{context}"]
= Advanced {op-system-first} installation configuration

A key benefit for manually provisioning the {op-system-first}
nodes for {product-title} is to be able to do configuration that is not
available through default {product-title} installation methods.
This section describes some of the configurations that you can do using
techniques that include:

* Passing kernel arguments to the live installer
* Running `coreos-installer` manually from the live system
* Embedding Ignition configs in an ISO

The advanced configuration topics for manual {op-system-first}
installations detailed in this section relate to disk partitioning, networking, and using Ignition configs in different ways.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_network_{context}"]
== Using advanced networking options for PXE and ISO installations
Networking for {product-title} nodes uses DHCP by default to gather all
necessary configuration settings. To set up static IP addresses or configure special settings, such as bonding, you can do one of the following:

* Pass special kernel parameters when you boot the live installer.

* Use a machine config to copy networking files to the installed system.

* Configure networking from a live installer shell prompt, then copy those settings to the installed system so that they take effect when the installed system first boots.

To configure a PXE or iPXE installation, use one of the following options:

* See the "Advanced RHCOS installation reference" tables.
* Use a machine config to copy networking files to the installed system.

To configure an ISO installation, use the following procedure.

.Procedure

. Boot the ISO installer.
. From the live system shell prompt, configure networking for the live
system using available RHEL tools, such as `nmcli` or `nmtui`.
. Run the `coreos-installer` command to install the system, adding the `--copy-network` option to copy networking configuration. For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ coreos-installer install --copy-network \
     --ignition-url=http://host/worker.ign /dev/sda
----

. Reboot into the installed system.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_disk_{context}"]
== Disk partitioning

// This content is not modularized, so any updates to this "Disk partitioning" section should be checked against the module created for vSphere UPI parity in the module file named `installation-disk-partitioning.adoc` for consistency until such time as this large assembly can be modularized.

In most cases, data partitions are originally created by installing {op-system}, rather than by installing another operating system. In such cases, the {product-title} installer should be allowed to configure your disk partitions.

However, there are two cases where you might want to intervene to override the default partitioning when installing an
{product-title} node:

* Create separate partitions: For greenfield installations on an empty
disk, you might want to add separate storage to a partition. This is
officially supported for making `/var` or a subdirectory of `/var`, such as `/var/lib/etcd`, a separate partition, but not both.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Kubernetes supports only two filesystem partitions. If you add more than one partition to the original configuration, Kubernetes cannot monitor all of them.
====
* Retain existing partitions: For a brownfield installation where you are reinstalling {product-title} on an existing node and want to retain data partitions installed from your previous operating system, there are both boot arguments and options to `coreos-installer` that allow you to retain existing data partitions.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_vardisk_{context}"]
=== Creating a separate `/var` partition
In general, disk partitioning for {product-title} should be left to the
installer. However, there are cases where you might want to create separate partitions in a part of the filesystem that you expect to grow.

{product-title} supports the addition of a single partition to attach
storage to either the `/var` partition or a subdirectory of `/var`.
For example:

* `/var/lib/containers`: Holds container-related content that can grow
as more images and containers are added to a system.
* `/var/lib/etcd`: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as performance optimization of etcd storage.
* `/var`: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as auditing.

Storing the contents of a `/var` directory separately makes it easier to grow storage for those areas as needed and reinstall {product-title} at a later date and keep that data intact. With this method, you will not have to pull all your containers again, nor will you have to copy massive log files when you update systems.

Because `/var` must be in place before a fresh installation of
{op-system-first}, the following procedure sets up the separate `/var` partition
by creating a machine config that is inserted during the `openshift-install`
preparation phases of an {product-title} installation.

.Procedure

. Create a directory to hold the {product-title} installation files:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir $HOME/clusterconfig
----

. Run `openshift-install` to create a set of files in the `manifest` and
`openshift` subdirectories. Answer the system questions as you are prompted:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install create manifests --dir $HOME/clusterconfig
? SSH Public Key ...
$ ls $HOME/clusterconfig/openshift/
99_kubeadmin-password-secret.yaml
99_openshift-cluster-api_master-machines-0.yaml
99_openshift-cluster-api_master-machines-1.yaml
99_openshift-cluster-api_master-machines-2.yaml
...
----

. Create a `MachineConfig` object and add it to a file in the `openshift` directory.
For example, name the file `98-var-partition.yaml`,
change the disk device name to the name of the storage device on the `worker` systems,
and set the storage size as appropriate. This attaches storage to a separate `/var`
directory.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  name: 98-var-partition
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.1.0
    storage:
      disks:
      - device: /dev/<device_name> <1>
        partitions:
        - sizeMiB: <partition_size>
          startMiB: <partition_start_offset> <2>
          label: var
      filesystems:
        - path: /var
          device: /dev/disk/by-partlabel/var
          format: xfs
    systemd:
      units:
        - name: var.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var
            What=/dev/disk/by-partlabel/var
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
----
+
<1> The storage device name of the disk that you want to partition.
<2> When adding a data partition to the boot disk, a minimum value of 25000 mebibytes is recommended. The root file system is automatically resized to fill all available space up to the specified offset. If no value is specified, or if the specified value is smaller than the recommended minimum, the resulting root file system will be too small, and future reinstalls of {op-system} might overwrite the beginning of the data partition.
+
[NOTE]
====
When creating a separate `/var` partition, you cannot use different instance types for worker nodes, if the different instance types do not have the same device name.
====
. Run `openshift-install` again to create Ignition configs from a set of files in the `manifest` and
`openshift` subdirectories:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install create ignition-configs --dir $HOME/clusterconfig
$ ls $HOME/clusterconfig/
auth  bootstrap.ign  master.ign  metadata.json  worker.ign
----

Now you can use the Ignition config files as input to the ISO or PXE manual installation procedures to install {op-system-first} systems.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_retaindisk_{context}"]
=== Retaining existing partitions
For an ISO installation, you can add options to the `coreos-installer` command line
that causes the installer to maintain one or more existing partitions.
For a PXE installation, you can `APPEND` `coreos.inst.*` options to preserve partitions.

Saved partitions might be partitions from an existing {product-title}
system that has data partitions that you want to keep. Here are a few tips:

* If you save existing partitions, and those partitions do not leave enough space for {op-system}, installation will fail without damaging the saved partitions.

* Identify the disk partitions you want to keep either by partition
label or by number.

.For an ISO installation

This example preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with `data` (`data*`):

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partlabel 'data*' /dev/sda
----

The following example illustrates running the `coreos-installer` in a way that preserves
the sixth (6) partition on the disk:

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partindex 6 /dev/sda
----

This example preserves partitions 5 and higher:

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign
        --save-partindex 5- /dev/sda
----

In the previous examples where partition saving is used, `coreos-installer` recreates the partition immediately.

.For a PXE installation

This `APPEND` option preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with 'data' ('data*'):

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partlabel=data*
----

This `APPEND` option preserves partitions 5 and higher:

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partindex=5-
----

This `APPEND` option preserves partition 6:

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partindex=6
----

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_ignition_{context}"]
== Identifying Ignition configs
When doing an {op-system} manual installation, there are two types of Ignition configs that you can provide, with different reasons for providing each one:

* **Permanent install Ignition config**: Every manual {op-system} installation
needs to pass one of the Ignition config files generated by `openshift-installer`,
such as `bootstrap.ign`, `master.ign` and `worker.ign`, to carry out the
installation.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
It is not recommended to modify these files.
====
+
For PXE installations, you pass the Ignition configs on the `APPEND` line using the
`coreos.inst.ignition_url=` option. For ISO installations, after the ISO boots to
the shell prompt, you identify the Ignition config on the `coreos-installer`
command line with the `--ignition-url=` option. In both cases, only HTTP and HTTPS
protocols are supported.
+

* **Live install Ignition config**: This type must be created manually and should be avoided if possible, as it is not supported by Red Hat. With this method, the Ignition config passes to the live install medium, runs immediately upon booting, and performs setup tasks before and/or after the {op-system} system installs to disk. This method should only be used for performing tasks that must be performed once and not applied again later, such as with advanced partitioning that cannot be done using a machine config.
+
For PXE or ISO boots, you can create the Ignition config
and `APPEND` the `ignition.config.url=` option to identify the location of
the Ignition config. You also need to append `ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal`
or the `ignition.config.url` option will be ignored.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_embedignition_{context}"]
=== Embedding an Ignition config in the {op-system} ISO
You can embed a live install Ignition config directly in an {op-system} ISO image. When
the ISO image is booted, the embedded config will be applied automatically.

.Procedure

. Download the `coreos-installer` binary from the following image mirror page: https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/.

. Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and the Ignition config file, and copy them into an accessible directory, such as `/mnt`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# cp rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso bootstrap.ign /mnt/
# chmod 644 /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----

. Run the following command to embed the Ignition config into the ISO:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition embed -i /mnt/bootstrap.ign \
     /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----
+
You can now use that ISO to install {op-system} using the specified live install
Ignition config.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Using `coreos-installer iso ignition embed` to embed a file generated by `openshift-installer`, such as `bootstrap.ign`, `master.ign` and `worker.ign`, is unsupported and not recommended.
====
+
. To show the contents of the embedded Ignition config and direct it into a file, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition show /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso > mybootstrap.ign
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# diff -s bootstrap.ign mybootstrap.ign
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Files bootstrap.ign and mybootstrap.ign are identical
----

. To remove the Ignition config and return the ISO to its pristine state so
you can reuse it, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition remove /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----
+
You can now embed another Ignition config into the ISO or use the ISO in its
pristine state.

Commit message:

Bug 1907885: clarify what configuration is copied by --copy-network

modules/installation-user-infra-machines-advanced.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_{context}"]
= Advanced {op-system-first} installation configuration

A key benefit for manually provisioning the {op-system-first}
nodes for {product-title} is to be able to do configuration that is not
available through default {product-title} installation methods.
This section describes some of the configurations that you can do using
techniques that include:

* Passing kernel arguments to the live installer
* Running `coreos-installer` manually from the live system
* Embedding Ignition configs in an ISO

The advanced configuration topics for manual {op-system-first}
installations detailed in this section relate to disk partitioning, networking, and using Ignition configs in different ways.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_network_{context}"]
== Using advanced networking options for PXE and ISO installations
Networking for {product-title} nodes uses DHCP by default to gather all
necessary configuration settings. To set up static IP addresses or configure special settings, such as bonding, you can do one of the following:

* Pass special kernel parameters when you boot the live installer.

* Use a machine config to copy networking files to the installed system.

* Configure networking from a live installer shell prompt, then copy those settings to the installed system so that they take effect when the installed system first boots.

To configure a PXE or iPXE installation, use one of the following options:

* See the "Advanced RHCOS installation reference" tables.
* Use a machine config to copy networking files to the installed system.

To configure an ISO installation, use the following procedure.

.Procedure

. Boot the ISO installer.
. From the live system shell prompt, configure networking for the live
system using available RHEL tools, such as `nmcli` or `nmtui`.
. Run the `coreos-installer` command to install the system, adding the `--copy-network` option to copy networking configuration. For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ coreos-installer install --copy-network \
     --ignition-url=http://host/worker.ign /dev/sda
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `--copy-network` option only copies networking configuration found under `/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections`. In particular, it does not copy the system hostname.
====

. Reboot into the installed system.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_disk_{context}"]
== Disk partitioning

// This content is not modularized, so any updates to this "Disk partitioning" section should be checked against the module created for vSphere UPI parity in the module file named `installation-disk-partitioning.adoc` for consistency until such time as this large assembly can be modularized.

The disk partitions are created on {product-title} cluster nodes during the {op-system-first} installation. Each {op-system} node of a particular architecture uses the same partition layout, unless the default partitioning configuration is overridden. During the {op-system} installation, the size of the root file system is increased to use the remaining available space on the target device.

However, there are two cases where you might want to intervene to override the default partitioning when installing an
{product-title} node:

* Create separate partitions: For greenfield installations on an empty
disk, you might want to add separate storage to a partition. This is
officially supported for making `/var` or a subdirectory of `/var`, such as `/var/lib/etcd`, a separate partition, but not both.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Kubernetes supports only two filesystem partitions. If you add more than one partition to the original configuration, Kubernetes cannot monitor all of them.
====
* Retain existing partitions: For a brownfield installation where you are reinstalling {product-title} on an existing node and want to retain data partitions installed from your previous operating system, there are both boot arguments and options to `coreos-installer` that allow you to retain existing data partitions.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_vardisk_{context}"]
=== Creating a separate `/var` partition
In general, disk partitioning for {product-title} should be left to the
installer. However, there are cases where you might want to create separate partitions in a part of the filesystem that you expect to grow.

{product-title} supports the addition of a single partition to attach
storage to either the `/var` partition or a subdirectory of `/var`.
For example:

* `/var/lib/containers`: Holds container-related content that can grow
as more images and containers are added to a system.
* `/var/lib/etcd`: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as performance optimization of etcd storage.
* `/var`: Holds data that you might want to keep separate for purposes such as auditing.

Storing the contents of a `/var` directory separately makes it easier to grow storage for those areas as needed and reinstall {product-title} at a later date and keep that data intact. With this method, you will not have to pull all your containers again, nor will you have to copy massive log files when you update systems.

Because `/var` must be in place before a fresh installation of
{op-system-first}, the following procedure sets up the separate `/var` partition
by creating a machine config that is inserted during the `openshift-install`
preparation phases of an {product-title} installation.

.Procedure

. Create a directory to hold the {product-title} installation files:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir $HOME/clusterconfig
----

. Run `openshift-install` to create a set of files in the `manifest` and
`openshift` subdirectories. Answer the system questions as you are prompted:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install create manifests --dir $HOME/clusterconfig
? SSH Public Key ...
$ ls $HOME/clusterconfig/openshift/
99_kubeadmin-password-secret.yaml
99_openshift-cluster-api_master-machines-0.yaml
99_openshift-cluster-api_master-machines-1.yaml
99_openshift-cluster-api_master-machines-2.yaml
...
----

. Create a `MachineConfig` object and add it to a file in the `openshift` directory.
For example, name the file `98-var-partition.yaml`,
change the disk device name to the name of the storage device on the `worker` systems,
and set the storage size as appropriate. This attaches storage to a separate `/var`
directory.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
  name: 98-var-partition
spec:
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 3.1.0
    storage:
      disks:
      - device: /dev/<device_name> <1>
        partitions:
        - sizeMiB: <partition_size>
          startMiB: <partition_start_offset> <2>
          label: var
      filesystems:
        - path: /var
          device: /dev/disk/by-partlabel/var
          format: xfs
    systemd:
      units:
        - name: var.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var
            What=/dev/disk/by-partlabel/var
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
----
+
<1> The storage device name of the disk that you want to partition.
<2> When adding a data partition to the boot disk, a minimum value of 25000 mebibytes is recommended. The root file system is automatically resized to fill all available space up to the specified offset. If no value is specified, or if the specified value is smaller than the recommended minimum, the resulting root file system will be too small, and future reinstalls of {op-system} might overwrite the beginning of the data partition.
+
[NOTE]
====
When creating a separate `/var` partition, you cannot use different instance types for worker nodes, if the different instance types do not have the same device name.
====
. Run `openshift-install` again to create Ignition configs from a set of files in the `manifest` and
`openshift` subdirectories:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install create ignition-configs --dir $HOME/clusterconfig
$ ls $HOME/clusterconfig/
auth  bootstrap.ign  master.ign  metadata.json  worker.ign
----

Now you can use the Ignition config files as input to the ISO or PXE manual installation procedures to install {op-system-first} systems.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_retaindisk_{context}"]
=== Retaining existing partitions
For an ISO installation, you can add options to the `coreos-installer` command line
that causes the installer to maintain one or more existing partitions.
For a PXE installation, you can `APPEND` `coreos.inst.*` options to preserve partitions.

Saved partitions might be partitions from an existing {product-title}
system that has data partitions that you want to keep. Here are a few tips:

* If you save existing partitions, and those partitions do not leave enough space for {op-system}, installation will fail without damaging the saved partitions.

* Identify the disk partitions you want to keep either by partition
label or by number.

.For an ISO installation

This example preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with `data` (`data*`):

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partlabel 'data*' /dev/sda
----

The following example illustrates running the `coreos-installer` in a way that preserves
the sixth (6) partition on the disk:

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partindex 6 /dev/sda
----

This example preserves partitions 5 and higher:

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign
        --save-partindex 5- /dev/sda
----

In the previous examples where partition saving is used, `coreos-installer` recreates the partition immediately.

.For a PXE installation

This `APPEND` option preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with 'data' ('data*'):

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partlabel=data*
----

This `APPEND` option preserves partitions 5 and higher:

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partindex=5-
----

This `APPEND` option preserves partition 6:

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partindex=6
----

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_ignition_{context}"]
== Identifying Ignition configs
When doing an {op-system} manual installation, there are two types of Ignition configs that you can provide, with different reasons for providing each one:

* **Permanent install Ignition config**: Every manual {op-system} installation
needs to pass one of the Ignition config files generated by `openshift-installer`,
such as `bootstrap.ign`, `master.ign` and `worker.ign`, to carry out the
installation.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
It is not recommended to modify these files.
====
+
For PXE installations, you pass the Ignition configs on the `APPEND` line using the
`coreos.inst.ignition_url=` option. For ISO installations, after the ISO boots to
the shell prompt, you identify the Ignition config on the `coreos-installer`
command line with the `--ignition-url=` option. In both cases, only HTTP and HTTPS
protocols are supported.
+

* **Live install Ignition config**: This type must be created manually and should be avoided if possible, as it is not supported by Red Hat. With this method, the Ignition config passes to the live install medium, runs immediately upon booting, and performs setup tasks before and/or after the {op-system} system installs to disk. This method should only be used for performing tasks that must be performed once and not applied again later, such as with advanced partitioning that cannot be done using a machine config.
+
For PXE or ISO boots, you can create the Ignition config
and `APPEND` the `ignition.config.url=` option to identify the location of
the Ignition config. You also need to append `ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal`
or the `ignition.config.url` option will be ignored.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_embedignition_{context}"]
=== Embedding an Ignition config in the {op-system} ISO
You can embed a live install Ignition config directly in an {op-system} ISO image. When
the ISO image is booted, the embedded config will be applied automatically.

.Procedure

. Download the `coreos-installer` binary from the following image mirror page: https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/.

. Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and the Ignition config file, and copy them into an accessible directory, such as `/mnt`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# cp rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso bootstrap.ign /mnt/
# chmod 644 /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----

. Run the following command to embed the Ignition config into the ISO:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition embed -i /mnt/bootstrap.ign \
     /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----
+
You can now use that ISO to install {op-system} using the specified live install
Ignition config.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Using `coreos-installer iso ignition embed` to embed a file generated by `openshift-installer`, such as `bootstrap.ign`, `master.ign` and `worker.ign`, is unsupported and not recommended.
====
+
. To show the contents of the embedded Ignition config and direct it into a file, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition show /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso > mybootstrap.ign
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# diff -s bootstrap.ign mybootstrap.ign
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Files bootstrap.ign and mybootstrap.ign are identical
----

. To remove the Ignition config and return the ISO to its pristine state so
you can reuse it, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition remove /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----
+
You can now embed another Ignition config into the ISO or use the ISO in its
pristine state.
