modules/installation-network-user-infra.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc
// * installing/installing_platform_agnostic/installing-platform-agnostic.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-restricted-networks-vmc-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-network-customizations-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z-kvm.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-power.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power.adoc
// * installing/installing-rhv-restricted-network.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-vsphere"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere-network-customizations"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:ibm-z:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z-kvm"]
:ibm-z-kvm:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-azure-user-infra"]
:azure:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:gcp:
:restricted:
endif::[]


[id="installation-network-user-infra_{context}"]
= Networking requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure

All the {op-system-first} machines require networking to be configured in `initramfs` during boot
to fetch their Ignition config files.

ifndef::azure,gcp[]
ifdef::ibm-z[]
During the initial boot, the machines require an HTTP or HTTPS server to
establish a network connection to download their Ignition config files.

The machines are configured with static IP addresses. No DHCP server is required. Ensure that the machines have persistent IP addresses and hostnames.
endif::ibm-z[]
ifndef::ibm-z[]
During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a DHCP server or statically by providing the required boot options. After a network connection is established, the machines download their Ignition config files from an HTTP or HTTPS server. The Ignition config files are then used to set the exact state of each machine. The Machine Config Operator completes more changes to the machines, such as the application of new certificates or keys, after installation.

It is recommended to use a DHCP server for long-term management of the cluster machines. Ensure that the DHCP server is configured to provide persistent IP addresses, DNS server information, and hostnames to the cluster machines.

[NOTE]
====
If a DHCP service is not available for your user-provisioned infrastructure, you can instead provide the IP networking configuration and the address of the DNS server to the nodes at {op-system} install time. These can be passed as boot arguments if you are installing from an ISO image. See the _Creating Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines_ section for more information about static IP provisioning and advanced networking options.
====
endif::ibm-z[]

The Kubernetes API server must be able to resolve the node names of the cluster
machines. If the API servers and worker nodes are in different zones, you can
configure a default DNS search zone to allow the API server to resolve the
node names. Another supported approach is to always refer to hosts by their
fully-qualified domain names in both the node objects and all DNS requests.
endif::azure,gcp[]

ifndef::ibm-z[]
[id="installation-host-names-dhcp-user-infra_{context}"]
== Setting the cluster node hostnames through DHCP

On {op-system-first} machines, the hostname is set through NetworkManager. By default, the machines obtain their hostname through DHCP. If the hostname is not provided by DHCP, it is obtained through a reverse DNS lookup. Reverse DNS lookup occurs after the network has been initialized on a node and can take time to resolve. Other system services can start prior to this and detect the hostname as `localhost` or similar. You can avoid this by using DHCP to provide the hostname for each cluster node.

Additionally, setting the hostnames through DHCP can bypass any manual DNS record name configuration errors in environments that have a DNS split-horizon implementation.
endif::ibm-z[]

[id="installation-network-connectivity-user-infra_{context}"]
== Network connectivity requirements

You must configure the network connectivity between machines to allow {product-title} cluster
components to communicate. Each machine must be able to resolve the hostnames
of all other machines in the cluster.

This section provides details about the ports that are required.

ifndef::restricted,origin[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
In connected {product-title} environments, all nodes are required to have Internet access to pull images
for platform containers and provide telemetry data to Red Hat.
====
endif::restricted,origin[]

ifdef::ibm-z-kvm[]
[NOTE]
====
The {op-system-base} KVM host must be configured to use bridged networking in libvirt or MacVTap to connect the network to the virtual machines. The virtual machines must have access to the network, which is attached to the {op-system-base} KVM host. Virtual Networks, for example network address translation (NAT), within KVM are not a supported configuration.
====
endif::ibm-z-kvm[]

.Ports used for all-machine to all-machine communications
[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
|===

|Protocol
|Port
|Description

|ICMP
|N/A
|Network reachability tests

.4+|TCP
|`1936`
|Metrics

|`9000`-`9999`
|Host level services, including the node exporter on ports `9100`-`9101` and
the Cluster Version Operator on port `9099`.

|`10250`-`10259`
|The default ports that Kubernetes reserves

|`10256`
|openshift-sdn

.3+|UDP
|`4789`
|VXLAN and Geneve

|`6081`
|VXLAN and Geneve

|`9000`-`9999`
|Host level services, including the node exporter on ports `9100`-`9101`.

|TCP/UDP
|`30000`-`32767`
|Kubernetes node port

|===

.Ports used for all-machine to control plane communications
[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
|===

|Protocol
|Port
|Description

|TCP
|`6443`
|Kubernetes API

|===

.Ports used for control plane machine to control plane machine communications
[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
|===

|Protocol
|Port
|Description

|TCP
|`2379`-`2380`
|etcd server and peer ports

|===

ifdef::vsphere[]
[discrete]
== Ethernet adaptor hardware address requirements

When provisioning VMs for the cluster, the ethernet interfaces configured for
each VM must use a MAC address from the VMware Organizationally Unique
Identifier (OUI) allocation ranges:

* `00:05:69:00:00:00` to `00:05:69:FF:FF:FF`
* `00:0c:29:00:00:00` to `00:0c:29:FF:FF:FF`
* `00:1c:14:00:00:00` to `00:1c:14:FF:FF:FF`
* `00:50:56:00:00:00` to `00:50:56:FF:FF:FF`

If a MAC address outside the VMware OUI is used, the cluster installation will
not succeed.
endif::vsphere[]

ifdef::vsphere[]
:!vsphere:
endif::[]

ifndef::azure,gcp[]
[discrete]
== NTP configuration for user-provisioned infrastructure

{product-title} clusters are configured to use a public Network Time Protocol (NTP) server by default. If you want to use a local enterprise NTP server, or if your cluster is being deployed in a disconnected network, you can configure the cluster to use a specific time server. For more information, see the documentation for _Configuring chrony time service_.

ifndef::ibm-z[]
If a DHCP server provides NTP server information, the chrony time service on the {op-system-first} machines read the information and can sync the clock with the NTP servers.
endif::ibm-z[]
endif::azure,gcp[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:!ibm-z:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z-kvm"]
:!ibm-z-kvm:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-azure-user-infra"]
:!azure:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:!gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:!gcp:
:!restricted:
endif::[]

Commit message:

BZ#1877064: nw latency reqs
Fixes https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1877064

For conventional installations, 2ms is identified in the
foll KCS: https://access.redhat.com/articles/3220991

After mailing list feedback, 10ms is the general guideline.

modules/installation-network-user-infra.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc
// * installing/installing_platform_agnostic/installing-platform-agnostic.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-restricted-networks-vmc-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_vmc/installing-vmc-network-customizations-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-restricted-networks-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere.adoc
// * installing/installing_vsphere/installing-vsphere-network-customizations.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-z-kvm.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-ibm-power.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_z/installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power.adoc
// * installing/installing-rhv-restricted-network.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-vsphere"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-vsphere-network-customizations"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:ibm-z:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z-kvm"]
:ibm-z-kvm:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal"]
:restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-azure-user-infra"]
:azure:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:gcp:
:restricted:
endif::[]


[id="installation-network-user-infra_{context}"]
= Networking requirements for user-provisioned infrastructure

All the {op-system-first} machines require networking to be configured in `initramfs` during boot
to fetch their Ignition config files.

ifndef::azure,gcp[]
ifdef::ibm-z[]
During the initial boot, the machines require an HTTP or HTTPS server to
establish a network connection to download their Ignition config files.

The machines are configured with static IP addresses. No DHCP server is required. Ensure that the machines have persistent IP addresses and hostnames.
endif::ibm-z[]
ifndef::ibm-z[]
During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a DHCP server or statically by providing the required boot options. After a network connection is established, the machines download their Ignition config files from an HTTP or HTTPS server. The Ignition config files are then used to set the exact state of each machine. The Machine Config Operator completes more changes to the machines, such as the application of new certificates or keys, after installation.

It is recommended to use a DHCP server for long-term management of the cluster machines. Ensure that the DHCP server is configured to provide persistent IP addresses, DNS server information, and hostnames to the cluster machines.

[NOTE]
====
If a DHCP service is not available for your user-provisioned infrastructure, you can instead provide the IP networking configuration and the address of the DNS server to the nodes at {op-system} install time. These can be passed as boot arguments if you are installing from an ISO image. See the _Creating Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) machines_ section for more information about static IP provisioning and advanced networking options.
====
endif::ibm-z[]

The Kubernetes API server must be able to resolve the node names of the cluster
machines. If the API servers and worker nodes are in different zones, you can
configure a default DNS search zone to allow the API server to resolve the
node names. Another supported approach is to always refer to hosts by their
fully-qualified domain names in both the node objects and all DNS requests.
endif::azure,gcp[]

ifndef::ibm-z[]
[id="installation-host-names-dhcp-user-infra_{context}"]
== Setting the cluster node hostnames through DHCP

On {op-system-first} machines, the hostname is set through NetworkManager. By default, the machines obtain their hostname through DHCP. If the hostname is not provided by DHCP, it is obtained through a reverse DNS lookup. Reverse DNS lookup occurs after the network has been initialized on a node and can take time to resolve. Other system services can start prior to this and detect the hostname as `localhost` or similar. You can avoid this by using DHCP to provide the hostname for each cluster node.

Additionally, setting the hostnames through DHCP can bypass any manual DNS record name configuration errors in environments that have a DNS split-horizon implementation.
endif::ibm-z[]

[id="installation-network-connectivity-user-infra_{context}"]
== Network connectivity requirements

You must configure the network connectivity between machines to allow {product-title} cluster
components to communicate. Each machine must be able to resolve the hostnames
of all other machines in the cluster.

For clusters that run general-purpose workloads such as databases, microservices, and web applications, a network latency up to 10 ms between all nodes provides acceptable performance.
Specialized workloads could have stringent network latency requirements that are lower.
Geographic distribution requirements and other constraints can add to network latency and reduce performance.
For general-purpose clusters, the control plane nodes benefit from low latency that provides stability for etcd, quorum, and reduces etcd leader elections that are disruptive to the cluster.

This section provides details about the ports that are required.

ifndef::restricted,origin[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
In connected {product-title} environments, all nodes are required to have Internet access to pull images
for platform containers and provide telemetry data to Red Hat.
====
endif::restricted,origin[]

ifdef::ibm-z-kvm[]
[NOTE]
====
The {op-system-base} KVM host must be configured to use bridged networking in libvirt or MacVTap to connect the network to the virtual machines. The virtual machines must have access to the network, which is attached to the {op-system-base} KVM host. Virtual Networks, for example network address translation (NAT), within KVM are not a supported configuration.
====
endif::ibm-z-kvm[]

.Ports used for all-machine to all-machine communications
[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
|===

|Protocol
|Port
|Description

|ICMP
|N/A
|Network reachability tests

.4+|TCP
|`1936`
|Metrics

|`9000`-`9999`
|Host level services, including the node exporter on ports `9100`-`9101` and
the Cluster Version Operator on port `9099`.

|`10250`-`10259`
|The default ports that Kubernetes reserves

|`10256`
|openshift-sdn

.3+|UDP
|`4789`
|VXLAN and Geneve

|`6081`
|VXLAN and Geneve

|`9000`-`9999`
|Host level services, including the node exporter on ports `9100`-`9101`.

|TCP/UDP
|`30000`-`32767`
|Kubernetes node port

|===

.Ports used for all-machine to control plane communications
[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
|===

|Protocol
|Port
|Description

|TCP
|`6443`
|Kubernetes API

|===

.Ports used for control plane machine to control plane machine communications
[cols="2a,2a,5a",options="header"]
|===

|Protocol
|Port
|Description

|TCP
|`2379`-`2380`
|etcd server and peer ports

|===

ifdef::vsphere[]
[discrete]
== Ethernet adaptor hardware address requirements

When provisioning VMs for the cluster, the ethernet interfaces configured for
each VM must use a MAC address from the VMware Organizationally Unique
Identifier (OUI) allocation ranges:

* `00:05:69:00:00:00` to `00:05:69:FF:FF:FF`
* `00:0c:29:00:00:00` to `00:0c:29:FF:FF:FF`
* `00:1c:14:00:00:00` to `00:1c:14:FF:FF:FF`
* `00:50:56:00:00:00` to `00:50:56:FF:FF:FF`

If a MAC address outside the VMware OUI is used, the cluster installation will
not succeed.
endif::vsphere[]

ifdef::vsphere[]
:!vsphere:
endif::[]

ifndef::azure,gcp[]
[discrete]
== NTP configuration for user-provisioned infrastructure

{product-title} clusters are configured to use a public Network Time Protocol (NTP) server by default. If you want to use a local enterprise NTP server, or if your cluster is being deployed in a disconnected network, you can configure the cluster to use a specific time server. For more information, see the documentation for _Configuring chrony time service_.

ifndef::ibm-z[]
If a DHCP server provides NTP server information, the chrony time service on the {op-system-first} machines read the information and can sync the clock with the NTP servers.
endif::ibm-z[]
endif::azure,gcp[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z"]
:!ibm-z:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-ibm-z-kvm"]
:!ibm-z-kvm:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-z"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-ibm-power"]
:!restricted:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-azure-user-infra"]
:!azure:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:!gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!gcp:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:!gcp:
:!restricted:
endif::[]
