modules/installation-special-config-kargs.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-special-config.adoc

[id="installation-special-config-kargs_{context}"]

= Adding day-1 kernel arguments
You can add kernel arguments to all master and/or worker nodes during initial cluster
installation or as a day-2 activity (preferred). Here are some reasons you might want
to add kernel arguments during cluster installation so they take effect before
the systems first boot up:

* You want to disable a feature, such as SELinux, so it has no impact on the systems when they first come up.
* You need to do some low-level network configuration before the systems start.

To add kernel arguments to master or worker nodes, you can create a MachineConfig object
and inject that object into the set of manifest files used by Ignition during
cluster setup, as described below.

For a listing of arguments you can pass to a RHEL 8 kernel at boot time, see
link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/performing_an_advanced_rhel_installation/index#kickstart-and-advanced-boot-options_installing-rhel-as-an-experienced-user[Boot options].
Again, you should only add kernel arguments with this procedure if they are needed to complete the initial
{product-title} installation.

.Procedure

. Generate the Kubernetes manifests for the cluster:
+
----
$ ./openshift-install create manifests --dir=<installation_directory> 
----

. Decide if you want to add kernel arguments to worker or master nodes.

. In the `openshift` directory, create a file (for example,
`99_openshift-machineconfig_master-kargs.yaml`) to define a MachineConfig
object to add the kernel settings.
This content adds a `loglevel=7` kernel argument to master nodes:
+
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: "master"
  name: 99_openshift-machineconfig_master-kargs
spec:
  kernelArguments:
    - 'loglevel=7'
----
+
You can change "master" to "worker" to add kernel arguments to worker nodes instead.
Create a separate YAML file to add to both master and worker nodes.

You can now continue on to create the cluster.

Commit message:

Ignition configs to MachineConfig & small changes

modules/installation-special-config-kargs.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-special-config.adoc

[id="installation-special-config-kargs_{context}"]

= Adding day-1 kernel arguments
You can add kernel arguments to all master and/or worker nodes during initial cluster
installation or as a day-2 activity (preferred). Here are some reasons you might want
to add kernel arguments during cluster installation so they take effect before
the systems first boot up:

* You want to disable a feature, such as SELinux, so it has no impact on the systems when they first come up.
* You need to do some low-level network configuration before the systems start.

To add kernel arguments to master or worker nodes, you can create a MachineConfig object
and inject that object into the set of manifest files used by Ignition during
cluster setup, as described below.

For a listing of arguments you can pass to a RHEL 8 kernel at boot time, see
link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/performing_an_advanced_rhel_installation/index#kickstart-and-advanced-boot-options_installing-rhel-as-an-experienced-user[Boot options].
Again, you should only add kernel arguments with this procedure if they are needed to complete the initial
{product-title} installation.

.Procedure

. Generate the Kubernetes manifests for the cluster:
+
----
$ ./openshift-install create manifests --dir=<installation_directory> 
----

. Decide if you want to add kernel arguments to worker or master nodes.

. In the `openshift` directory, create a file (for example,
`99_openshift-machineconfig_master-kargs.yaml`) to define a MachineConfig
object to add the kernel settings.
This example adds a `loglevel=7` kernel argument to master nodes:
+
----
$ cat << EOF > 99_openshift-machineconfig_master-kargs.yaml
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: master
  name: 99_openshift-machineconfig_master-kargs
spec:
  kernelArguments:
    - 'loglevel=7'
EOF
----
+
You can change `master` to `worker` to add kernel arguments to worker nodes instead.
Create a separate YAML file to add to both master and worker nodes.

You can now continue on to create the cluster.
