modules/ipi-install-bmc-addressing.adoc, before:

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// installing/installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-configuration-files.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id='bmc-addressing_{context}']
= BMC addressing

Most vendors support Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) addressing with the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI). IPMI does not encrypt communications. It is suitable for use within a data center over a secured or dedicated management network. Check with your vendor to see if they support Redfish network boot. Redfish delivers simple and secure management for converged, hybrid IT and the Software Defined Data Center (SDDC). Redfish is human readable and machine capable, and leverages common internet and web services standards to expose information directly to the modern tool chain. If your hardware does not support Redfish network boot, use IPMI.

[discrete]
== IPMI

Hosts using IPMI use the `ipmi://<out-of-band-ip>:<port>` address format, which defaults to port `623` if not specified. The following example demonstrates an IPMI configuration within the `install-config.yaml` file.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  baremetal:
    hosts:
      - name: openshift-master-0
        role: master
        bmc:
          address: ipmi://<out-of-band-ip>
          username: <user>
          password: <password>
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `provisioning` network is required when PXE booting using IPMI for BMC addressing. It is not possible to PXE boot hosts without a `provisioning` network. If you deploy without a `provisioning` network, you must use a virtual media BMC addressing option such as `redfish-virtualmedia` or `idrac-virtualmedia`. See "Redfish virtual media for HPE iLO" in the "BMC addressing for HPE iLO" section or "Redfish virtual media for Dell iDRAC" in the "BMC addressing for Dell iDRAC" section for additional details.
====

[discrete]
== Redfish network boot

To enable Redfish, use `redfish://` or `redfish+http://` to disable TLS. The installer requires both the hostname or the IP address and the path to the system ID. The following example demonstrates a Redfish configuration within the `install-config.yaml` file.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  baremetal:
    hosts:
      - name: openshift-master-0
        role: master
        bmc:
          address: redfish://<out-of-band-ip>/redfish/v1/Systems/1
          username: <user>
          password: <password>
----

While it is recommended to have a certificate of authority for the out-of-band management addresses, you must include `disableCertificateVerification: True` in the `bmc` configuration if using self-signed certificates. The following example demonstrates a Redfish configuration using the `disableCertificateVerification: True` configuration parameter within the `install-config.yaml` file.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  baremetal:
    hosts:
      - name: openshift-master-0
        role: master
        bmc:
          address: redfish://<out-of-band-ip>/redfish/v1/Systems/1
          username: <user>
          password: <password>
          disableCertificateVerification: True
----
[discrete]
== Redfish APIs

Several redfish API endpoints are called onto your BCM when using the bare-metal installer-provisioned infrastructure.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You need to ensure that your BMC supports all of the redfish APIs before installation.
====

List of redfish APIs::
* Power on
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X POST -H'Content-Type: application/json' -H'Accept: application/json' -d '{"ResetType": "On"}' https://$SERVER/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/Actions/ComputerSystem.Reset
----
* Power off
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X POST -H'Content-Type: application/json' -H'Accept: application/json' -d '{"ResetType": "ForceOff"}' https://$SERVER/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/Actions/ComputerSystem.Reset
----
* Temporary boot using `pxe`
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json"  https://$Server/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/ -d '{"Boot": {"BootSourceOverrideTarget": "pxe", "BootSourceOverrideEnabled": "Once"}}
----
* Set BIOS boot mode using `Legacy` or `UEFI`
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json"  https://$Server/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/ -d '{"Boot": {"BootSourceOverrideMode":"UEFI"}}
----

List of redfish-virtualmedia APIs::
* Set temporary boot device using `cd` or `dvd`
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" https://$Server/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/ -d '{"Boot": {"BootSourceOverrideTarget": "cd", "BootSourceOverrideEnabled": "Once"}}'
----
* Mount virtual media
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "If-Match: *" https://$Server/redfish/v1/Managers/$ManagerID/VirtualMedia/$VmediaId -d '{"Image": "https://example.com/test.iso", "TransferProtocolType": "HTTPS", "UserName": "", "Password":""}'
----

[NOTE]
====
The `PowerOn` and `PowerOff` commands for redfish APIs are the same for the redfish-virtualmedia APIs.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
`HTTPS` and `HTTP` are the only supported parameter types for `TransferProtocolTypes`.
====

Commit message:

Added a module for editing a BareMetalHost resource after installation.
Signed-off-by: John Wilkins <jowilkin@redhat.com>

modules/ipi-install-bmc-addressing.adoc, after:

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// installing/installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-configuration-files.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id='bmc-addressing_{context}']
= BMC addressing

Most vendors support Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) addressing with the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI). IPMI does not encrypt communications. It is suitable for use within a data center over a secured or dedicated management network. Check with your vendor to see if they support Redfish network boot. Redfish delivers simple and secure management for converged, hybrid IT and the Software Defined Data Center (SDDC). Redfish is human readable and machine capable, and leverages common internet and web services standards to expose information directly to the modern tool chain. If your hardware does not support Redfish network boot, use IPMI.

If you need to modify the BMC address or credentials after installation, see the _Additional resources_ section.

[discrete]
== IPMI

Hosts using IPMI use the `ipmi://<out-of-band-ip>:<port>` address format, which defaults to port `623` if not specified. The following example demonstrates an IPMI configuration within the `install-config.yaml` file.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  baremetal:
    hosts:
      - name: openshift-master-0
        role: master
        bmc:
          address: ipmi://<out-of-band-ip>
          username: <user>
          password: <password>
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `provisioning` network is required when PXE booting using IPMI for BMC addressing. It is not possible to PXE boot hosts without a `provisioning` network. If you deploy without a `provisioning` network, you must use a virtual media BMC addressing option such as `redfish-virtualmedia` or `idrac-virtualmedia`. See "Redfish virtual media for HPE iLO" in the "BMC addressing for HPE iLO" section or "Redfish virtual media for Dell iDRAC" in the "BMC addressing for Dell iDRAC" section for additional details.
====

[discrete]
== Redfish network boot

To enable Redfish, use `redfish://` or `redfish+http://` to disable TLS. The installer requires both the hostname or the IP address and the path to the system ID. The following example demonstrates a Redfish configuration within the `install-config.yaml` file.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  baremetal:
    hosts:
      - name: openshift-master-0
        role: master
        bmc:
          address: redfish://<out-of-band-ip>/redfish/v1/Systems/1
          username: <user>
          password: <password>
----

While it is recommended to have a certificate of authority for the out-of-band management addresses, you must include `disableCertificateVerification: True` in the `bmc` configuration if using self-signed certificates. The following example demonstrates a Redfish configuration using the `disableCertificateVerification: True` configuration parameter within the `install-config.yaml` file.

[source,yaml]
----
platform:
  baremetal:
    hosts:
      - name: openshift-master-0
        role: master
        bmc:
          address: redfish://<out-of-band-ip>/redfish/v1/Systems/1
          username: <user>
          password: <password>
          disableCertificateVerification: True
----
[discrete]
== Redfish APIs

Several redfish API endpoints are called onto your BCM when using the bare-metal installer-provisioned infrastructure.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You need to ensure that your BMC supports all of the redfish APIs before installation.
====

List of redfish APIs::
* Power on
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X POST -H'Content-Type: application/json' -H'Accept: application/json' -d '{"ResetType": "On"}' https://$SERVER/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/Actions/ComputerSystem.Reset
----
* Power off
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X POST -H'Content-Type: application/json' -H'Accept: application/json' -d '{"ResetType": "ForceOff"}' https://$SERVER/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/Actions/ComputerSystem.Reset
----
* Temporary boot using `pxe`
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json"  https://$Server/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/ -d '{"Boot": {"BootSourceOverrideTarget": "pxe", "BootSourceOverrideEnabled": "Once"}}
----
* Set BIOS boot mode using `Legacy` or `UEFI`
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json"  https://$Server/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/ -d '{"Boot": {"BootSourceOverrideMode":"UEFI"}}
----

List of redfish-virtualmedia APIs::
* Set temporary boot device using `cd` or `dvd`
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" https://$Server/redfish/v1/Systems/$SystemID/ -d '{"Boot": {"BootSourceOverrideTarget": "cd", "BootSourceOverrideEnabled": "Once"}}'
----
* Mount virtual media
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl -u $USER:$PASS -X PATCH -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "If-Match: *" https://$Server/redfish/v1/Managers/$ManagerID/VirtualMedia/$VmediaId -d '{"Image": "https://example.com/test.iso", "TransferProtocolType": "HTTPS", "UserName": "", "Password":""}'
----

[NOTE]
====
The `PowerOn` and `PowerOff` commands for redfish APIs are the same for the redfish-virtualmedia APIs.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
`HTTPS` and `HTTP` are the only supported parameter types for `TransferProtocolTypes`.
====
