modules/machineset-yaml-aws.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-aws.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-infrastructure-machinesets"]
:infra:
endif::[]

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="machineset-yaml-aws_{context}"]
=  Sample YAML for a compute machine set custom resource on AWS

This sample YAML defines a compute machine set that runs in the `us-east-1a` Amazon Web Services (AWS) zone and creates nodes that are labeled with
ifndef::infra[`node-role.kubernetes.io/<role>: ""`.]
ifdef::infra[`node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""`.]

In this sample, `<infrastructure_id>` is the infrastructure ID label that is based on the cluster ID that you set when you provisioned the cluster, and
ifndef::infra[`<role>`]
ifdef::infra[`<infra>`]
is the node label to add.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata:
  labels:
    machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> <1>
ifndef::infra[]
  name: <infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
  name: <infrastructure_id>-infra-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> <1>
ifndef::infra[]
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-infra-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> <1>
ifndef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <role> <3>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <role> <3>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <infra> <3>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <infra> <3>
endif::infra[]
ifndef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-infra-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
    spec:
      metadata:
        labels:
ifndef::infra[]
          node-role.kubernetes.io/<role>: "" <3>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
          node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: "" <3>
      taints: <4>
        - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
          effect: NoSchedule
endif::infra[]
      providerSpec:
        value:
          ami:
ifndef::infra[]
            id: ami-046fe691f52a953f9 <4>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
            id: ami-046fe691f52a953f9 <5>
endif::infra[]
          apiVersion: awsproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1beta1
          blockDevices:
            - ebs:
                iops: 0
                volumeSize: 120
                volumeType: gp2
          credentialsSecret:
            name: aws-cloud-credentials
          deviceIndex: 0
          iamInstanceProfile:
            id: <infrastructure_id>-worker-profile <1>
          instanceType: m6i.large
          kind: AWSMachineProviderConfig
          placement:
            availabilityZone: us-east-1a
            region: us-east-1
          securityGroups:
            - filters:
                - name: tag:Name
                  values:
                    - <infrastructure_id>-worker-sg <1>
          subnet:
            filters:
              - name: tag:Name
                values:
                  - <infrastructure_id>-private-us-east-1a <1>
          tags:
            - name: kubernetes.io/cluster/<infrastructure_id> <1>
              value: owned
          userDataSecret:
            name: worker-user-data
----
<1> Specify the infrastructure ID that is based on the cluster ID that you set when you provisioned the cluster. If you have the OpenShift CLI installed, you can obtain the infrastructure ID by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -o jsonpath='{.status.infrastructureName}{"\n"}' infrastructure cluster
----
ifndef::infra[]
<2> Specify the infrastructure ID, node label, and zone.
<3> Specify the node label to add.
<4> Specify a valid {op-system-first} AMI for your AWS zone for your {product-title} nodes. If you want to use an AWS Marketplace image, you must complete the {product-title} subscription from the link:https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/fulfillment?productId=59ead7de-2540-4653-a8b0-fa7926d5c845[AWS Marketplace] to obtain an AMI ID for your region.
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
<2> Specify the infrastructure ID, `<infra>` node label, and zone.
<3> Specify the `<infra>` node label.
<4> Specify a taint to prevent user workloads from being scheduled on infra nodes.
<5> Specify a valid {op-system-first} AMI for your AWS zone for your {product-title} nodes. If you want to use an AWS Marketplace image, you must complete the {product-title} subscription from the link:https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/fulfillment?productId=59ead7de-2540-4653-a8b0-fa7926d5c845[AWS Marketplace] to obtain an AMI ID for your region.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-machine-api \
    -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.providerSpec.value.ami.id}{"\n"}' \
    get machineset/<infrastructure_id>-worker-<zone>
----
endif::infra[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-infrastructure-machinesets"]
:!infra:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "cluster-tasks"]
:!infra:
endif::[]

Commit message:

[OSDOCS-2003]: AWS user-defined tags in machine sets

modules/machineset-yaml-aws.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-aws.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-infrastructure-machinesets"]
:infra:
endif::[]

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="machineset-yaml-aws_{context}"]
=  Sample YAML for a compute machine set custom resource on AWS

This sample YAML defines a compute machine set that runs in the `us-east-1a` Amazon Web Services (AWS) zone and creates nodes that are labeled with
ifndef::infra[`node-role.kubernetes.io/<role>: ""`.]
ifdef::infra[`node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: ""`.]

In this sample, `<infrastructure_id>` is the infrastructure ID label that is based on the cluster ID that you set when you provisioned the cluster, and
ifndef::infra[`<role>`]
ifdef::infra[`<infra>`]
is the node label to add.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machine.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: MachineSet
metadata:
  labels:
    machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> <1>
ifndef::infra[]
  name: <infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
  name: <infrastructure_id>-infra-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> <1>
ifndef::infra[]
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-infra-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_id> <1>
ifndef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <role> <3>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <role> <3>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: infra <3>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: infra <3>
endif::infra[]
ifndef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_id>-infra-<zone> <2>
endif::infra[]
    spec:
      metadata:
        labels:
ifndef::infra[]
          node-role.kubernetes.io/<role>: "" <3>
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
          node-role.kubernetes.io/infra: "" <3>
endif::infra[]
      providerSpec:
        value:
          ami:
            id: ami-046fe691f52a953f9 <4>
          apiVersion: awsproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1beta1
          blockDevices:
            - ebs:
                iops: 0
                volumeSize: 120
                volumeType: gp2
          credentialsSecret:
            name: aws-cloud-credentials
          deviceIndex: 0
          iamInstanceProfile:
            id: <infrastructure_id>-worker-profile <1>
          instanceType: m6i.large
          kind: AWSMachineProviderConfig
          placement:
            availabilityZone: us-east-1a
            region: us-east-1
          securityGroups:
            - filters:
                - name: tag:Name
                  values:
                    - <infrastructure_id>-worker-sg <1>
          subnet:
            filters:
              - name: tag:Name
                values:
                  - <infrastructure_id>-private-us-east-1a <1>
          tags:
            - name: kubernetes.io/cluster/<infrastructure_id> <1>
              value: owned
            - name: <custom_tag_name> <5>
              value: <custom_tag_value> <5>
          userDataSecret:
            name: worker-user-data
ifdef::infra[]
      taints: <6>
        - key: node-role.kubernetes.io/infra
          effect: NoSchedule
endif::infra[]
----
<1> Specify the infrastructure ID that is based on the cluster ID that you set when you provisioned the cluster. If you have the OpenShift CLI installed, you can obtain the infrastructure ID by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get -o jsonpath='{.status.infrastructureName}{"\n"}' infrastructure cluster
----
ifndef::infra[]
<2> Specify the infrastructure ID, role node label, and zone.
<3> Specify the role node label to add.
endif::infra[]
ifdef::infra[]
<2> Specify the infrastructure ID, `infra` role node label, and zone.
<3> Specify the `infra` role node label.
endif::infra[]
<4> Specify a valid {op-system-first} Amazon
Machine Image (AMI) for your AWS zone for your {product-title} nodes. If you want to use an AWS Marketplace image, you must complete the {product-title} subscription from the link:https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/fulfillment?productId=59ead7de-2540-4653-a8b0-fa7926d5c845[AWS Marketplace] to obtain an AMI ID for your region.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-machine-api \
    -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.providerSpec.value.ami.id}{"\n"}' \
    get machineset/<infrastructure_id>-<role>-<zone>
----
<5> Optional: Specify custom tag data for your cluster. For example, you might add an admin contact email address by specifying a `name:value` pair of `Email:\admin-email@example.com`.
+
[NOTE]
====
Custom tags can also be specified during installation in the `install-config.yml` file. If the `install-config.yml` file and the machine set include a tag with the same `name` data, the value for the tag from the machine set takes priority over the value for the tag in the `install-config.yml` file.
====
ifdef::infra[]
<6> Specify a taint to prevent user workloads from being scheduled on infra nodes.
endif::infra[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-infrastructure-machinesets"]
:!infra:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "cluster-tasks"]
:!infra:
endif::[]
