modules/machineset-creating.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-aws.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-azure.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-gcp.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-osp.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-vsphere.adoc
// * post_installation_configuration/cluster-tasks.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-machineset-vsphere"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

[id="machineset-creating_{context}"]
= Creating a machine set

In addition to the ones created by the installation program, you can create your own machine sets to dynamically manage the machine compute resources for specific workloads of your choice.

.Prerequisites

* Deploy an {product-title} cluster.
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in to `oc` as a user with `cluster-admin` permission.
ifdef::vsphere[]
* Create a tag inside your vCenter instance based on the cluster API name. This tag is utilized by the machine set to associate the {product-title} nodes to the provisioned virtual machines (VM). For directions on creating tags in vCenter, see the VMware documentation for link:https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/6.7/com.vmware.vsphere.vcenterhost.doc/GUID-E8E854DD-AA97-4E0C-8419-CE84F93C4058.html[vSphere Tags and Attributes].
* Have the necessary permissions to deploy VMs in your vCenter instance and have the required access to the datastore specified.
endif::vsphere[]

.Procedure

. Create a new YAML file that contains the machine set custom resource (CR) sample, as shown, and is named `<file_name>.yaml`.
+
Ensure that you set the `<clusterID>` and `<role>` parameter values.

.. If you are not sure about which value to set for a specific field, you can check an existing machine set from your cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machinesets -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AVAILABLE   AGE
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1a   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1b   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1c   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1d   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1e   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1f   0         0                             55m
----

.. Check values of a specific machine set:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineset <machineset_name> -n \
     openshift-machine-api -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
...
template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: agl030519-vplxk <1>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: worker <2>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: worker
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1a
----
<1> The cluster ID.
<2> A default node label.

. Create the new `MachineSet` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <file_name>.yaml
----

. View the list of machine sets:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AVAILABLE   AGE
agl030519-vplxk-infra-us-east-1a    1         1         1       1           11m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1a   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1b   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1c   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1d   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1e   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1f   0         0                             55m
----
+
When the new machine set is available, the `DESIRED` and `CURRENT` values match. If the machine set is not available, wait a few minutes and run the command again.

. After the new machine set is available, check status of the machine and the node that it references:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe machine <name> -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe machine agl030519-vplxk-infra-us-east-1a -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
status:
  addresses:
  - address: 10.0.133.18
    type: InternalIP
  - address: ""
    type: ExternalDNS
  - address: ip-10-0-133-18.ec2.internal
    type: InternalDNS
  lastUpdated: "2019-05-03T10:38:17Z"
  nodeRef:
    kind: Node
    name: ip-10-0-133-18.ec2.internal
    uid: 71fb8d75-6d8f-11e9-9ff3-0e3f103c7cd8
  providerStatus:
    apiVersion: awsproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1beta1
    conditions:
    - lastProbeTime: "2019-05-03T10:34:31Z"
      lastTransitionTime: "2019-05-03T10:34:31Z"
      message: machine successfully created
      reason: MachineCreationSucceeded
      status: "True"
      type: MachineCreation
    instanceId: i-09ca0701454124294
    instanceState: running
    kind: AWSMachineProviderStatus
----

. View the new node and confirm that the new node has the label that you specified:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get node <node_name> --show-labels
----
+
Review the command output and confirm that `node-role.kubernetes.io/<your_label>` is in the `LABELS` list.

[NOTE]
====
Any change to a machine set is not applied to existing machines owned by the machine set. For example, labels edited or added to an existing machine set are not propagated to existing machines and nodes associated with the machine set.
====

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-machineset-aws"]
.Next steps
If you need machine sets in other availability zones, repeat this process to create more machine sets.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-machineset-vsphere"]
:!vsphere:
endif::[]

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.5] RFE-1136 BZ#1796054 Infra node improvements and updates for new workflow

modules/machineset-creating.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-aws.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-azure.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-gcp.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-osp.adoc
// * machine_management/creating_machinesets/creating-machineset-vsphere.adoc
// * post_installation_configuration/cluster-tasks.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-machineset-vsphere"]
:vsphere:
endif::[]

[id="machineset-creating_{context}"]
= Creating a machine set

In addition to the ones created by the installation program, you can create your own machine sets to dynamically manage the machine compute resources for specific workloads of your choice.

.Prerequisites

* Deploy an {product-title} cluster.
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in to `oc` as a user with `cluster-admin` permission.
ifdef::vsphere[]
* Create a tag inside your vCenter instance based on the cluster API name. This tag is utilized by the machine set to associate the {product-title} nodes to the provisioned virtual machines (VM). For directions on creating tags in vCenter, see the VMware documentation for link:https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/6.7/com.vmware.vsphere.vcenterhost.doc/GUID-E8E854DD-AA97-4E0C-8419-CE84F93C4058.html[vSphere Tags and Attributes].
* Have the necessary permissions to deploy VMs in your vCenter instance and have the required access to the datastore specified.
endif::vsphere[]

.Procedure

. Create a new YAML file that contains the machine set custom resource (CR) sample and is named `<file_name>.yaml`.
+
Ensure that you set the `<clusterID>` and `<role>` parameter values.

.. If you are not sure about which value to set for a specific field, you can check an existing machine set from your cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machinesets -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AVAILABLE   AGE
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1a   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1b   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1c   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1d   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1e   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1f   0         0                             55m
----

.. Check values of a specific machine set:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineset <machineset_name> -n \
     openshift-machine-api -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
...
template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: agl030519-vplxk <1>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: worker <2>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: worker
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1a
----
<1> The cluster ID.
<2> A default node label.

. Create the new `MachineSet` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <file_name>.yaml
----

. View the list of machine sets:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AVAILABLE   AGE
agl030519-vplxk-infra-us-east-1a    1         1         1       1           11m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1a   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1b   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1c   1         1         1       1           55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1d   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1e   0         0                             55m
agl030519-vplxk-worker-us-east-1f   0         0                             55m
----
+
When the new machine set is available, the `DESIRED` and `CURRENT` values match. If the machine set is not available, wait a few minutes and run the command again.

////
This step is not needed. No machines at this point.

. After the new machine set is available, check status of the machine and the node that it references:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe machine <name> -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe machine agl030519-vplxk-infra-us-east-1a -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
status:
  addresses:
  - address: 10.0.133.18
    type: InternalIP
  - address: ""
    type: ExternalDNS
  - address: ip-10-0-133-18.ec2.internal
    type: InternalDNS
  lastUpdated: "2019-05-03T10:38:17Z"
  nodeRef:
    kind: Node
    name: ip-10-0-133-18.ec2.internal
    uid: 71fb8d75-6d8f-11e9-9ff3-0e3f103c7cd8
  providerStatus:
    apiVersion: awsproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1beta1
    conditions:
    - lastProbeTime: "2019-05-03T10:34:31Z"
      lastTransitionTime: "2019-05-03T10:34:31Z"
      message: machine successfully created
      reason: MachineCreationSucceeded
      status: "True"
      type: MachineCreation
    instanceId: i-09ca0701454124294
    instanceState: running
    kind: AWSMachineProviderStatus
----
////

////
This step is not needed. I have not labeled a node yet.

. View the node you want to assign as the infra node to confirm that the node has the label that you specified:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get node <node_name> --show-labels
----
+
Review the command output and confirm that `node-role.kubernetes.io/<your_label>` is in the `LABELS` list.

[NOTE]
====
Any change to a machine set is not applied to existing machines owned by the machine set. For example, labels edited or added to an existing machine set are not propagated to existing machines and nodes associated with the machine set.
====
////

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-machineset-aws"]
.Next steps
If you need machine sets in other availability zones, repeat this process to create more machine sets.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "creating-machineset-vsphere"]
:!vsphere:
endif::[]
