modules/manually-configure-iam-nutanix.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_nutanix/configuring-iam-nutanix.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="manually-create-iam-nutanix_{context}"]
= Configuring IAM for Nutanix

Installing the cluster requires that the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) operate in manual mode. While the installation program configures the CCO for manual mode, you must specify the identity and access management secrets.

.Prerequisites

* You have configured the `ccoctl` binary.

* You have an `install-config.yaml` file.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file that contains the credentials data in the following format:
+
.Credentials data format
[source,yaml]
----
credentials:
- type: basic_auth <1>
  data:
    prismCentral: <2>
      username: <username_for_prism_central>
      password: <password_for_prism_central>
    prismElements: <3>
    - name: <name_of_prism_element>
      username: <username_for_prism_element>
      password: <password_for_prism_element>
----
<1> Specify the authentication type. Only basic authentication is supported.
<2> Specify the Prism Central credentials.
<3> Optional: Specify the Prism Element credentials.

. Extract the list of `CredentialsRequest` custom resources (CRs) from the {product-title} release image by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release extract --credentials-requests --cloud=nutanix \//
--to=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests \ <1>
quay.io/<path_to>/ocp-release:<version>
----
+
<1> Specify the path to the directory that contains the files for the component `CredentialsRequests` objects. If the specified directory does not exist, this command creates it.
+
.Sample `CredentialsRequest` object
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
  kind: CredentialsRequest
  metadata:
    annotations:
      include.release.openshift.io/self-managed-high-availability: "true"
    labels:
      controller-tools.k8s.io: "1.0"
    name: openshift-machine-api-nutanix
    namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
  spec:
    providerSpec:
      apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
      kind: NutanixProviderSpec
    secretRef:
      name: nutanix-credentials
      namespace: openshift-machine-api
----

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process all of the `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `credrequests` directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl nutanix create-shared-secrets \
--credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests \// <1>
--output-dir=<ccoctl_output_dir> \// <2>
--credentials-source-filepath=<path_to_credentials_file> <3>
----
+
<1> Specify the path to the directory that contains the files for the component `CredentialsRequests` objects.
<2> Specify the directory that contains the files of the component credentials secrets, under the `manifests` directory. By default, the `ccoctl` tool creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the `--output-dir` flag.
<3> Optional: Specify the directory that contains the credentials data YAML file. By default, `ccoctl` expects this file to be in `<home_directory>/.nutanix/credentials`. To specify a different directory, use the `--credentials-source-filepath` flag.

. Edit the `install-config.yaml` configuration file so that the `credentialsMode` parameter is set to `Manual`.
+
.Example `install-config.yaml` configuration file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: cluster1.example.com
credentialsMode: Manual <1>
...
----
<1> Add this line to set the `credentialsMode` parameter to `Manual`.

. Create the installation manifests by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install create manifests --dir <installation_directory> <1>
----
<1> Specify the path to the directory that contains the `install-config.yaml` file for your cluster.

. Copy the generated credential files to the target manifests directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cp <ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests/*credentials.yaml ./<installation_directory>/manifests
----

.Verification

* Ensure that the appropriate secrets exist in the `manifests` directory.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls ./<installation_directory>/manifests
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
total 64
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 2335 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-config.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  161 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-dns-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  864 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-infrastructure-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  191 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-ingress-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 9607 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-network-01-crd.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  272 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-network-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  142 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-proxy-01-config.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  171 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-scheduler-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  200 Jul  8 12:22 cvo-overrides.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  118 Jul  8 12:22 kube-cloud-config.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 1304 Jul  8 12:22 kube-system-configmap-root-ca.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 4090 Jul  8 12:22 machine-config-server-tls-secret.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 3961 Jul  8 12:22 openshift-config-secret-pull-secret.yaml
-rw------- 1 <user> <user>  283 Jul  8 12:24 openshift-machine-api-nutanix-credentials-credentials.yaml
----

Commit message:

Update ccoctl docs for optional components

modules/manually-configure-iam-nutanix.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_nutanix/configuring-iam-nutanix.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="manually-create-iam-nutanix_{context}"]
= Configuring IAM for Nutanix

Installing the cluster requires that the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) operate in manual mode. While the installation program configures the CCO for manual mode, you must specify the identity and access management secrets.

.Prerequisites

* You have configured the `ccoctl` binary.

* You have an `install-config.yaml` file.

.Procedure

. Create a YAML file that contains the credentials data in the following format:
+
.Credentials data format
[source,yaml]
----
credentials:
- type: basic_auth <1>
  data:
    prismCentral: <2>
      username: <username_for_prism_central>
      password: <password_for_prism_central>
    prismElements: <3>
    - name: <name_of_prism_element>
      username: <username_for_prism_element>
      password: <password_for_prism_element>
----
<1> Specify the authentication type. Only basic authentication is supported.
<2> Specify the Prism Central credentials.
<3> Optional: Specify the Prism Element credentials.

. Extract the list of `CredentialsRequest` custom resources (CRs) from the {product-title} release image by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release extract --credentials-requests --cloud=nutanix \//
--to=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests \ <1>
quay.io/<path_to>/ocp-release:<version>
----
+
<1> Specify the path to the directory that contains the files for the component `CredentialsRequests` objects. If the specified directory does not exist, this command creates it.
+
.Sample `CredentialsRequest` object
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
  kind: CredentialsRequest
  metadata:
    annotations:
      include.release.openshift.io/self-managed-high-availability: "true"
    labels:
      controller-tools.k8s.io: "1.0"
    name: openshift-machine-api-nutanix
    namespace: openshift-cloud-credential-operator
  spec:
    providerSpec:
      apiVersion: cloudcredential.openshift.io/v1
      kind: NutanixProviderSpec
    secretRef:
      name: nutanix-credentials
      namespace: openshift-machine-api
----

. If your cluster uses cluster capabilities to disable one or more optional components, delete the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any disabled components.
+
.Example `credrequests` directory contents for {product-title} 4.12 on Nutanix
+
[source,terminal]
----
0000_30_machine-api-operator_00_credentials-request.yaml <1>
----
+
<1> The Machine API Operator CR is required.

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process all of the `CredentialsRequest` objects in the `credrequests` directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl nutanix create-shared-secrets \
--credentials-requests-dir=<path_to_directory_with_list_of_credentials_requests>/credrequests \// <1>
--output-dir=<ccoctl_output_dir> \// <2>
--credentials-source-filepath=<path_to_credentials_file> <3>
----
+
<1> Specify the path to the directory that contains the files for the component `CredentialsRequests` objects.
<2> Specify the directory that contains the files of the component credentials secrets, under the `manifests` directory. By default, the `ccoctl` tool creates objects in the directory in which the commands are run. To create the objects in a different directory, use the `--output-dir` flag.
<3> Optional: Specify the directory that contains the credentials data YAML file. By default, `ccoctl` expects this file to be in `<home_directory>/.nutanix/credentials`. To specify a different directory, use the `--credentials-source-filepath` flag.

. Edit the `install-config.yaml` configuration file so that the `credentialsMode` parameter is set to `Manual`.
+
.Example `install-config.yaml` configuration file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: cluster1.example.com
credentialsMode: Manual <1>
...
----
<1> Add this line to set the `credentialsMode` parameter to `Manual`.

. Create the installation manifests by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install create manifests --dir <installation_directory> <1>
----
<1> Specify the path to the directory that contains the `install-config.yaml` file for your cluster.

. Copy the generated credential files to the target manifests directory by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cp <ccoctl_output_dir>/manifests/*credentials.yaml ./<installation_directory>/manifests
----

.Verification

* Ensure that the appropriate secrets exist in the `manifests` directory.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls ./<installation_directory>/manifests
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
total 64
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 2335 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-config.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  161 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-dns-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  864 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-infrastructure-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  191 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-ingress-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 9607 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-network-01-crd.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  272 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-network-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  142 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-proxy-01-config.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  171 Jul  8 12:22 cluster-scheduler-02-config.yml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  200 Jul  8 12:22 cvo-overrides.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user>  118 Jul  8 12:22 kube-cloud-config.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 1304 Jul  8 12:22 kube-system-configmap-root-ca.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 4090 Jul  8 12:22 machine-config-server-tls-secret.yaml
-rw-r----- 1 <user> <user> 3961 Jul  8 12:22 openshift-config-secret-pull-secret.yaml
-rw------- 1 <user> <user>  283 Jul  8 12:24 openshift-machine-api-nutanix-credentials-credentials.yaml
----
