modules/manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-manual.adoc
// * authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_cloud_public/manually-creating-iam-ibm-cloud.adoc
// * updating/updating-cluster-within-minor.adoc
// * updating/updating-cluster-cli.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

ifeval::["{context}" == "configuring-iam-ibm-cloud"]
:ibm-cloud:
endif::[]

[id="manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade_{context}"]
= Upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials

The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) `Upgradable` status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is `False` by default.

* For minor releases, for example, from 4.10 to 4.11, this status prevents you from upgrading until you have addressed any updated permissions and annotated the `CloudCredential` resource to indicate that the permissions are updated as needed for the next version. This annotation changes the `Upgradable` status to `True`.

* For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.11.0 to 4.11.1, no permissions are added or changed, so the upgrade is not blocked.

Before upgrading a cluster with manually maintained credentials, you must create any new credentials for the release image that you are upgrading to. Additionally, you must review the required permissions for existing credentials and accommodate any new permissions requirements in the new release for those components.

ifdef::ibm-cloud[]
.Prerequisites

* You have configured the `ccoctl` binary.
endif::ibm-cloud[]

.Procedure

. Extract and examine the `CredentialsRequest` custom resource for the new release.
+
The "Manually creating IAM" section of the installation content for your cloud provider explains how to obtain and use the credentials required for your cloud.


. Update the manually maintained credentials on your cluster:

** Create new secrets for any `CredentialsRequest` custom resources that are added by the new release image.
ifndef::ibm-cloud[]
** If the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any existing credentials that are stored in secrets have changed their permissions requirements, update the permissions as required.
endif::ibm-cloud[]
ifdef::ibm-cloud[]
** If the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any existing credentials that are stored in secrets have changed their permissions requirements, create new service IDs and API keys for the credential requests and secret manifests using the `ccoctl` utility.
+
The "Manually creating IAM for IBM Cloud" section of the installation content for IBM Cloud explains how to use the `ccoctl` utility to create new service IDs.
endif::ibm-cloud[]

. When all of the secrets are correct for the new release, indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade:

.. Log in to the {product-title} CLI as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.. Edit the `CloudCredential` resource to add an `upgradeable-to` annotation within the `metadata` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit cloudcredential cluster
----
+
.Text to add
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      cloudcredential.openshift.io/upgradeable-to: <version_number>
...
----
+
Where `<version_number>` is the version you are upgrading to, in the format `x.y.z`. For example, `4.8.2` for {product-title} 4.8.2.
+
It may take several minutes after adding the annotation for the upgradeable status to change.

.Verification

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, navigate to *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings*.

. To view the CCO status details, click *cloud-credential* in the *Cluster Operators* list.

.. If the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *False*, verify that the `upgradeable-to` annotation is free of typographical errors.
ifndef::ibm-cloud[]
When the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *True*, you can begin the {product-title} upgrade.
endif::ibm-cloud[]
ifdef::ibm-cloud[]
+
When the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *True*, you can begin the {product-title} upgrade.

. Revoke the old service IDs and API Keys:
[source,terminal]
+
----
$ ccoctl ibmcloud delete-service-id \
    --credentials-requests-dir <path_to_credential_requests_directory> \ <1>
    --name <name> <2>
----
<1> The directory where the credential requests are stored.
<2> The name of the {product-title} cluster.
+
--
[NOTE]
====
If your cluster uses Technology Preview features that are enabled by the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set, you must include the `--enable-tech-preview` parameter.
====
--
endif::ibm-cloud[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "configuring-iam-ibm-cloud"]
:!ibm-cloud:
endif::[]

Commit message:

Update ccoctl docs for optional components

modules/manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-manual.adoc
// * authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-sts.adoc
// * installing/installing_ibm_cloud_public/manually-creating-iam-ibm-cloud.adoc
// * updating/updating-cluster-within-minor.adoc
// * updating/updating-cluster-cli.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE

ifeval::["{context}" == "configuring-iam-ibm-cloud"]
:ibm-cloud:
endif::[]

[id="manually-maintained-credentials-upgrade_{context}"]
= Upgrading clusters with manually maintained credentials

The Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) `Upgradable` status for a cluster with manually maintained credentials is `False` by default.

* For minor releases, for example, from 4.10 to 4.11, this status prevents you from upgrading until you have addressed any updated permissions and annotated the `CloudCredential` resource to indicate that the permissions are updated as needed for the next version. This annotation changes the `Upgradable` status to `True`.

* For z-stream releases, for example, from 4.11.0 to 4.11.1, no permissions are added or changed, so the upgrade is not blocked.

Before upgrading a cluster with manually maintained credentials, you must create any new credentials for the release image that you are upgrading to. Additionally, you must review the required permissions for existing credentials and accommodate any new permissions requirements in the new release for those components.

ifdef::ibm-cloud[]
.Prerequisites

* You have configured the `ccoctl` binary.
endif::ibm-cloud[]

.Procedure

. Extract and examine the `CredentialsRequest` custom resource for the new release.
+
The "Manually creating IAM" section of the installation content for your cloud provider explains how to obtain and use the credentials required for your cloud.


. Update the manually maintained credentials on your cluster:
+
--
** Create new secrets for any `CredentialsRequest` custom resources that are added by the new release image.
ifndef::ibm-cloud[]
** If the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any existing credentials that are stored in secrets have changed their permissions requirements, update the permissions as required.
endif::ibm-cloud[]
ifdef::ibm-cloud[]
** If the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any existing credentials that are stored in secrets have changed their permissions requirements, create new service IDs and API keys for the credential requests and secret manifests using the `ccoctl` utility.
+
The "Manually creating IAM for IBM Cloud" section of the installation content for IBM Cloud explains how to use the `ccoctl` utility to create new service IDs.
endif::ibm-cloud[]
--
+
[NOTE]
====
If your cluster uses cluster capabilities to disable one or more optional components, delete the `CredentialsRequest` custom resources for any disabled components.
====

. When all of the secrets are correct for the new release, indicate that the cluster is ready to upgrade:

.. Log in to the {product-title} CLI as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.. Edit the `CloudCredential` resource to add an `upgradeable-to` annotation within the `metadata` field:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit cloudcredential cluster
----
+
.Text to add
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  metadata:
    annotations:
      cloudcredential.openshift.io/upgradeable-to: <version_number>
...
----
+
Where `<version_number>` is the version you are upgrading to, in the format `x.y.z`. For example, `4.8.2` for {product-title} 4.8.2.
+
It may take several minutes after adding the annotation for the upgradeable status to change.

.Verification

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, navigate to *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings*.

. To view the CCO status details, click *cloud-credential* in the *Cluster Operators* list.

.. If the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *False*, verify that the `upgradeable-to` annotation is free of typographical errors.
ifndef::ibm-cloud[]
When the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *True*, you can begin the {product-title} upgrade.
endif::ibm-cloud[]
ifdef::ibm-cloud[]
+
When the *Upgradeable* status in the *Conditions* section is *True*, you can begin the {product-title} upgrade.

. Revoke the old service IDs and API Keys:
[source,terminal]
+
----
$ ccoctl ibmcloud delete-service-id \
    --credentials-requests-dir <path_to_credential_requests_directory> \ <1>
    --name <name> <2>
----
<1> The directory where the credential requests are stored.
<2> The name of the {product-title} cluster.
+
--
[NOTE]
====
If your cluster uses Technology Preview features that are enabled by the `TechPreviewNoUpgrade` feature set, you must include the `--enable-tech-preview` parameter.
====
--
endif::ibm-cloud[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "configuring-iam-ibm-cloud"]
:!ibm-cloud:
endif::[]
