modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * migration/migrating_3_4/configuring-replication-repository-3-4.adoc
// * migration/migrating_4_1_4/configuring-replication-repository-4-1-4.adoc
// * migration/migrating_4_2_4/configuring-replication-repository-4-2-4.adoc

[id='migration-configuring-mcg_{context}']
= Configuring a Multi-Cloud Object Gateway storage bucket as a replication repository

You can install the OpenShift Container Storage Operator and configure a Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG) storage bucket as a replication repository for the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}).

[id='installing-the-ocs-operator_{context}']
== Installing the OpenShift Container Storage Operator

You can install the OpenShift Container Storage Operator from OperatorHub.

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
.Prerequisites

* Ensure that you have downloaded the link:https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager site] as shown in _Obtaining the installation program_ in the installation documentation for your platform.
+
If you have the pull secret, add the `redhat-operators` catalog to the OperatorHub custom resource (CR) as shown in _Configuring {product-title} to use Red Hat Operators_.
endif::[]

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.
. Use *Filter by keyword* (in this case, *OCS*) to find the *OpenShift Container Storage Operator*.
. Select the *OpenShift Container Storage Operator* and click *Install*.
. Select an *Update Channel*, *Installation Mode*, and *Approval Strategy*.
. Click *Install*.
+
On the *Installed Operators* page, the *OpenShift Container Storage Operator* appears in the *openshift-storage* project with the status *Succeeded*.

[id='configuring-mcg-storage-bucket_{context}']
== Creating the Multi-Cloud Object Gateway storage bucket

You can create the Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG) storage bucket's custom resources (CRs).

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login
----

. Create the `NooBaa` CR configuration file, `noobaa.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: noobaa.io/v1alpha1
kind: NooBaa
metadata:
  name: noobaa
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
 dbResources:
   requests:
     cpu: 0.5 <1>
     memory: 1Gi
 coreResources:
   requests:
     cpu: 0.5 <1>
     memory: 1Gi
----
<1> For a very small cluster, you can change the `cpu` value to `0.1`.

. Create the `NooBaa` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f noobaa.yml
----

. Create the `BackingStore` CR configuration file, `bs.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: noobaa.io/v1alpha1
kind: BackingStore
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - noobaa.io/finalizer
  labels:
    app: noobaa
  name: mcg-pv-pool-bs
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
  pvPool:
    numVolumes: 3 <1>
    resources:
      requests:
        storage: 50Gi <2>
    storageClass: gp2 <3>
  type: pv-pool
----
<1> Specify the number of volumes in the persistent volume pool.
<2> Specify the size of the volumes.
<3> Specify the storage class.

. Create the `BackingStore` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f bs.yml
----

. Create the `BucketClass` CR configuration file, `bc.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: noobaa.io/v1alpha1
kind: BucketClass
metadata:
  labels:
    app: noobaa
  name: mcg-pv-pool-bc
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
  placementPolicy:
    tiers:
    - backingStores:
      - mcg-pv-pool-bs
      placement: Spread
----

. Create the `BucketClass` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f bc.yml
----

. Create the `ObjectBucketClaim` CR configuration file, `obc.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: objectbucket.io/v1alpha1
kind: ObjectBucketClaim
metadata:
  name: migstorage
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
  bucketName: migstorage <1>
  storageClassName: openshift-storage.noobaa.io
  additionalConfig:
    bucketclass: mcg-pv-pool-bc
----
<1> Record the bucket name for adding the replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console.

. Create the `ObjectBucketClaim` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f obc.yml
----

. Watch the resource creation process to verify that the `ObjectBucketClaim` status is `Bound`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ watch -n 30 'oc get -n openshift-storage objectbucketclaim migstorage -o yaml'
----
+
This process can take five to ten minutes.

. Obtain and record the following values, which are required when you add the replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console:

* S3 endpoint:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route -n openshift-storage s3
----

* S3 provider access key:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret -n openshift-storage migstorage -o go-template='{{ .data.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}' | base64 -d
----

* S3 provider secret access key:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret -n openshift-storage migstorage -o go-template='{{ .data.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}' | base64 -d
----

Commit message:

Rebrand of "OpenShift Container Storage" to "OpenShift Data Foundation"

modules/migration-configuring-mcg.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * migration/migrating_3_4/configuring-replication-repository-3-4.adoc
// * migration/migrating_4_1_4/configuring-replication-repository-4-1-4.adoc
// * migration/migrating_4_2_4/configuring-replication-repository-4-2-4.adoc

[id='migration-configuring-mcg_{context}']
= Configuring a Multi-Cloud Object Gateway storage bucket as a replication repository

You can install the {rh-storage} Operator and configure a Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG) storage bucket as a replication repository for the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}).

[id='installing-the-ocs-operator_{context}']
== Installing the OpenShift Data Foundation Operator

You can install the {rh-storage} Operator from OperatorHub.

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
.Prerequisites

* Ensure that you have downloaded the link:https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager site] as shown in _Obtaining the installation program_ in the installation documentation for your platform.
+
If you have the pull secret, add the `redhat-operators` catalog to the OperatorHub custom resource (CR) as shown in _Configuring {product-title} to use Red Hat Operators_.
endif::[]

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.
. Use *Filter by keyword* (in this case, *OCS*) to find the *{rh-storage} Operator*.
. Select the *{rh-storage} Operator* and click *Install*.
. Select an *Update Channel*, *Installation Mode*, and *Approval Strategy*.
. Click *Install*.
+
On the *Installed Operators* page, the *{rh-storage} Operator* appears in the *openshift-storage* project with the status *Succeeded*.

[id='configuring-mcg-storage-bucket_{context}']
== Creating the Multi-Cloud Object Gateway storage bucket

You can create the Multi-Cloud Object Gateway (MCG) storage bucket's custom resources (CRs).

.Procedure

. Log in to the {product-title} cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc login
----

. Create the `NooBaa` CR configuration file, `noobaa.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: noobaa.io/v1alpha1
kind: NooBaa
metadata:
  name: noobaa
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
 dbResources:
   requests:
     cpu: 0.5 <1>
     memory: 1Gi
 coreResources:
   requests:
     cpu: 0.5 <1>
     memory: 1Gi
----
<1> For a very small cluster, you can change the `cpu` value to `0.1`.

. Create the `NooBaa` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f noobaa.yml
----

. Create the `BackingStore` CR configuration file, `bs.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: noobaa.io/v1alpha1
kind: BackingStore
metadata:
  finalizers:
  - noobaa.io/finalizer
  labels:
    app: noobaa
  name: mcg-pv-pool-bs
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
  pvPool:
    numVolumes: 3 <1>
    resources:
      requests:
        storage: 50Gi <2>
    storageClass: gp2 <3>
  type: pv-pool
----
<1> Specify the number of volumes in the persistent volume pool.
<2> Specify the size of the volumes.
<3> Specify the storage class.

. Create the `BackingStore` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f bs.yml
----

. Create the `BucketClass` CR configuration file, `bc.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: noobaa.io/v1alpha1
kind: BucketClass
metadata:
  labels:
    app: noobaa
  name: mcg-pv-pool-bc
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
  placementPolicy:
    tiers:
    - backingStores:
      - mcg-pv-pool-bs
      placement: Spread
----

. Create the `BucketClass` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f bc.yml
----

. Create the `ObjectBucketClaim` CR configuration file, `obc.yml`, with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: objectbucket.io/v1alpha1
kind: ObjectBucketClaim
metadata:
  name: migstorage
  namespace: openshift-storage
spec:
  bucketName: migstorage <1>
  storageClassName: openshift-storage.noobaa.io
  additionalConfig:
    bucketclass: mcg-pv-pool-bc
----
<1> Record the bucket name for adding the replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console.

. Create the `ObjectBucketClaim` object:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f obc.yml
----

. Watch the resource creation process to verify that the `ObjectBucketClaim` status is `Bound`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ watch -n 30 'oc get -n openshift-storage objectbucketclaim migstorage -o yaml'
----
+
This process can take five to ten minutes.

. Obtain and record the following values, which are required when you add the replication repository to the {mtc-short} web console:

* S3 endpoint:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route -n openshift-storage s3
----

* S3 provider access key:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret -n openshift-storage migstorage -o go-template='{{ .data.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}' | base64 -d
----

* S3 provider secret access key:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get secret -n openshift-storage migstorage -o go-template='{{ .data.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}' | base64 -d
----
