modules/migration-upgrading-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/upgrading-3-4.adoc
// * migration_toolkit_for_containers/upgrading-mtc.adoc

[id="migration-upgrading-mtc-on-ocp-4_{context}"]
= Upgrading the {mtc-full} on {product-title} 4

You can upgrade the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} 4 by using the {product-title} web console.

.Prerequisites

* You must be logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
+
Operators that have a pending upgrade display an *Upgrade available* status.

. Click *{mtc-full} Operator*.
. Click the *Subscription* tab. Any upgrades requiring approval are displayed next to *Upgrade Status*. For example, it might display *1 requires approval*.
. Click *1 requires approval*, then click *Preview Install Plan*.
. Review the resources that are listed as available for upgrade and click *Approve*.
. Navigate back to the *Operators -> Installed Operators* page to monitor the progress of the upgrade. When complete, the status changes to *Succeeded* and *Up to date*.
ifdef::migrating-4-1-4,migrating-4-2-4[]
. Click *{mtc-full} Operator*.
. Under *Provided APIs*, locate the *Migration Controller* tile, and click *Create Instance*.
. If you are upgrading {mtc-short} on a _source_ cluster, update the following parameters in the `MigrationController` custom resource (CR) manifest:
endif::[]
ifdef::migrating-4-1-4[]
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
...
  migration_controller: false
  migration_ui: false
...
  deprecated_cors_configuration: true
----
endif::[]
ifdef::migrating-4-2-4[]
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
...
  migration_controller: false
  migration_ui: false
----
endif::[]
ifdef::migrating-4-1-4,migrating-4-2-4[]
+
You do not need to update the `MigrationController` CR manifest on the target cluster.

. Click *Create*.
endif::[]
. Click *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that the {mtc-short} pods are running.

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.7] MIG-802: legacy MTV operator for OCP 3.7 to 4.5

modules/migration-upgrading-mtc-on-ocp-4.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * migrating_from_ocp_3_to_4/upgrading-3-4.adoc
// * migration_toolkit_for_containers/upgrading-mtc.adoc

[id="migration-upgrading-mtc-on-ocp-4_{context}"]
= Upgrading the {mtc-full} on {product-title} {product-version}

You can upgrade the {mtc-full} ({mtc-short}) on {product-title} {product-version} by using the Operator Lifecycle Manager.

.Prerequisites

* You must be logged in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
+
Operators that have a pending upgrade display an *Upgrade available* status.

. Click *{mtc-full} Operator*.
. Click the *Subscription* tab. Any upgrades requiring approval are displayed next to *Upgrade Status*. For example, it might display *1 requires approval*.
. Click *1 requires approval*, then click *Preview Install Plan*.
. Review the resources that are listed as available for upgrade and click *Approve*.
. Navigate back to the *Operators -> Installed Operators* page to monitor the progress of the upgrade. When complete, the status changes to *Succeeded* and *Up to date*.
. Click *{mtc-full} Operator*.
. Under *Provided APIs*, locate the *Migration Controller* tile, and click *Create Instance*.
. Click *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that the {mtc-short} pods are running.
