modules/network-observability-loki-install.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * networking/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-loki-installation_{context}"]
= Installing the Loki Operator

.Prerequisites

* Installed Loki, recommended to install Loki using the link:https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/openshift-logging/loki-rhel8-operator/622b46bcae289285d6fcda39[Loki Operator version 5.6], which allows the ability to specify a `network` tenant for Loki. The `network` tenant uses a specific tenant mode only implemented in version 5.6 of the Loki Operator. 
* Object storage, such as AWS S3.
* {product-title} 4.10+.
* Linux Kernel 4.18+.

//* <Any Loki install prerequisites for using with Network Observability operator?>

There are several ways you can install Loki. One way is by installing the Loki Operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub.


.Procedure

. Install the `Loki Operator` Operator:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *Loki Operator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

.. Under *Installation Mode*, select *All namespaces on the cluster*.

.. Verify that you installed the Loki Operator. Visit the *Operators* → *Installed Operators* page and look for *Loki Operator*.

.. Verify that *Loki Operator* is listed with *Status* as *Succeeded* in all the projects.
+
. Create a `Secret` YAML file. You can create this secret in the web console or CLI. 

.. Using the web console, navigate to the Import icon ,*+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor. It is important to create this YAML file in the `netobserv` namespace that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` to specify your credentials. 

.. Once you create the secret, you should see it listed under *Workloads* -> *Secrets* in the web console.
+
The following shows an example secret YAML file:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: loki-s3
  namespace: netobserv
stringData:
  access_key_id: QUtJQUlPU0ZPRE5ON0VYQU1QTEUK
  access_key_secret: d0phbHJYVXRuRkVNSS9LN01ERU5HL2JQeFJmaUNZRVhBTVBMRUtFWQo=
  bucketnames: s3-bucket-name
  endpoint: https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
  region: eu-central-1
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
To uninstall Loki, refer to the uninstallation process that corresponds with the method you used to install Loki. You might have remaining `ClusterRoles` and `ClusterRoleBindings`, data stored in object store, and persistent volume that must be removed. 
====

Commit message:

Backporting Network Observability Operator to 4.11 and 4.10.
Fixes post merge netobserv operator

Reorgainzing topic map

GH#54809: Updates to Network Observability

modules/network-observability-loki-install.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * networking/network_observability/installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-loki-installation_{context}"]
= Installing the Loki Operator
It is recommended to install Loki using the link:https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/openshift-logging/loki-rhel8-operator/622b46bcae289285d6fcda39[Loki Operator version 5.6], This version provides the ability to create a LokiStack instance using the `openshift-network` tennant configuration mode. It also provides fully automatic, in-cluster authentication and authorization support for Network Observability.

.Prerequisites

* Supported Log Store (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Azure, Swift, Minio, OpenShift Data Foundation)
* {product-title} 4.10+.
* Linux Kernel 4.18+.

//* <Any Loki install prerequisites for using with Network Observability operator?>

There are several ways you can install Loki. One way you can install the Loki Operator is by using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub. 


.Procedure

. Install the `Loki Operator` Operator:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *Loki Operator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

.. Under *Installation Mode*, select *All namespaces on the cluster*.

.. Verify that you installed the Loki Operator. Visit the *Operators* → *Installed Operators* page and look for *Loki Operator*.

.. Verify that *Loki Operator* is listed with *Status* as *Succeeded* in all the projects.
+
. Create a `Secret` YAML file. You can create this secret in the web console or CLI. 
.. Using the web console, navigate to the *Project* -> *All Projects* dropdown and select *Create Project*. Name the project `netobserv` and click *Create*.
.. Navigate to the Import icon ,*+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor. It is important to create this YAML file in the `netobserv` namespace that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` to specify your credentials. 

.. Once you create the secret, you should see it listed under *Workloads* -> *Secrets* in the web console.
+
The following shows an example secret YAML file:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: loki-s3
  namespace: netobserv
stringData:
  access_key_id: QUtJQUlPU0ZPRE5ON0VYQU1QTEUK
  access_key_secret: d0phbHJYVXRuRkVNSS9LN01ERU5HL2JQeFJmaUNZRVhBTVBMRUtFWQo=
  bucketnames: s3-bucket-name
  endpoint: https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
  region: eu-central-1
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
To uninstall Loki, refer to the uninstallation process that corresponds with the method you used to install Loki. You might have remaining `ClusterRoles` and `ClusterRoleBindings`, data stored in object store, and persistent volume that must be removed. 
====
