modules/nw-configure-ingress-access-logging.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/configure-ingress-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-configure-ingress-access-logging_{context}"]
= Configuring Ingress access logging

You can configure the Ingress Controller to enable access logs. If you have clusters that do not receive much traffic, then you can log to a sidecar. If you have high traffic clusters, to avoid exceeding the capacity of the logging stack or  to integrate with a logging infrastructure outside of {product-title}, you can forward logs to a custom syslog endpoint. You can also specify the format for access logs.

Container logging is useful to enable access logs on low-traffic clusters when there is no existing Syslog logging infrastructure, or for short-term use while diagnosing problems with the Ingress Controller.

Syslog is needed for high-traffic clusters where access logs could exceed the OpenShift Logging stack's capacity, or for environments where any logging solution needs to integrate with an existing Syslog logging infrastructure. The Syslog use-cases can overlap.

.Prerequisites

* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

Configure Ingress access logging to a sidecar.

* To configure Ingress access logging, you must specify a destination using `spec.logging.access.destination`. To specify logging to a sidecar container, you must specify `Container` `spec.logging.access.destination.type`. The following example is an Ingress Controller definition that logs to a `Container` destination:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Container
----

* When you configure the Ingress Controller to log to a sidecar, the operator creates a container named `logs` inside the Ingress Controller Pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress logs deployment.apps/router-default -c logs
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
2020-05-11T19:11:50.135710+00:00 router-default-57dfc6cd95-bpmk6 router-default-57dfc6cd95-bpmk6 haproxy[108]: 174.19.21.82:39654 [11/May/2020:19:11:50.133] public be_http:hello-openshift:hello-openshift/pod:hello-openshift:hello-openshift:10.128.2.12:8080 0/0/1/0/1 200 142 - - --NI 1/1/0/0/0 0/0 "GET / HTTP/1.1"
----

Configure Ingress access logging to a Syslog endpoint.

* To configure Ingress access logging, you must specify a destination using `spec.logging.access.destination`. To specify logging to a Syslog endpoint destination, you must specify `Syslog` for `spec.logging.access.destination.type`. If the destination type is `Syslog`, you must also specify a destination endpoint using `spec.logging.access.destination.syslog.endpoint` and you can specify a facility using `spec.logging.access.destination.syslog.facility`. The following example is an Ingress Controller definition that logs to a `Syslog` destination:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Syslog
        syslog:
          address: 1.2.3.4
          port: 10514
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The `syslog` destination port must be UDP.
====

Configure Ingress access logging with a specific log format.

* You can specify `spec.logging.access.httpLogFormat` to customize the log format. The following example is an Ingress Controller definition that logs to a `syslog` endpoint with IP address 1.2.3.4 and port 10514:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Syslog
        syslog:
          address: 1.2.3.4
          port: 10514
      httpLogFormat: '%ci:%cp [%t] %ft %b/%s %B %bq %HM %HU %HV'
----

Disable Ingress access logging.

* To disable Ingress access logging, leave `spec.logging` or `spec.logging.access` empty:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access: null
----

Allow the Ingress Controller to modify the HAProxy log length when using a sidecar.

* Use `spec.logging.access.destination.syslog.maxLength` if you are using `spec.logging.access.destination.type: Syslog`.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Syslog
        syslog:
          address: 1.2.3.4
          maxLength: 4096
          port: 10514
----
* Use `spec.logging.access.destination.container.maxLength` if you are using `spec.logging.access.destination.type: Container`.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Container
        container:
          maxLength: 8192
----

Commit message:

OSDOCS-8676: Overhaul the Ingress controller parameter doc

modules/nw-configure-ingress-access-logging.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/configure-ingress-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-configure-ingress-access-logging_{context}"]
= Configuring Ingress access logging

You can configure the Ingress Controller to enable access logs. If you have clusters that do not receive much traffic, then you can log to a sidecar. If you have high traffic clusters, to avoid exceeding the capacity of the logging stack or  to integrate with a logging infrastructure outside of {product-title}, you can forward logs to a custom syslog endpoint. You can also specify the format for access logs.

Container logging is useful to enable access logs on low-traffic clusters when there is no existing Syslog logging infrastructure, or for short-term use while diagnosing problems with the Ingress Controller.

Syslog is needed for high-traffic clusters where access logs could exceed the OpenShift Logging stack's capacity, or for environments where any logging solution needs to integrate with an existing Syslog logging infrastructure. The Syslog use-cases can overlap.

.Prerequisites

* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

Configure Ingress access logging to a sidecar.

* To configure Ingress access logging, you must specify a destination using `spec.logging.access.destination`. To specify logging to a sidecar container, you must specify `Container` `spec.logging.access.destination.type`. The following example is an Ingress Controller definition that logs to a `Container` destination:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Container
----

* When you configure the Ingress Controller to log to a sidecar, the operator creates a container named `logs` inside the Ingress Controller Pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress logs deployment.apps/router-default -c logs
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
2020-05-11T19:11:50.135710+00:00 router-default-57dfc6cd95-bpmk6 router-default-57dfc6cd95-bpmk6 haproxy[108]: 174.19.21.82:39654 [11/May/2020:19:11:50.133] public be_http:hello-openshift:hello-openshift/pod:hello-openshift:hello-openshift:10.128.2.12:8080 0/0/1/0/1 200 142 - - --NI 1/1/0/0/0 0/0 "GET / HTTP/1.1"
----

Configure Ingress access logging to a Syslog endpoint.

* To configure Ingress access logging, you must specify a destination using `spec.logging.access.destination`. To specify logging to a Syslog endpoint destination, you must specify `Syslog` for `spec.logging.access.destination.type`. If the destination type is `Syslog`, you must also specify a destination endpoint using `spec.logging.access.destination.syslog.endpoint` and you can specify a facility using `spec.logging.access.destination.syslog.facility`. The following example is an Ingress Controller definition that logs to a `Syslog` destination:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Syslog <1>
        syslog: <2>
          address: 1.2.3.4 <3>
          maxLength: 4096 <4>
          port: 10514 <5>
          facility: `user` <6>
----
<1> Specifies that logs are sent to a Syslog endpoint. The administrator must specify an endpoint that can receive Syslog messages. The expectation is that the administrator has configured a custom Syslog instance.
<2> Lists parameters for the `Syslog` logging destination type.
<3> Specifies the IP address of the syslog endpoint that receives log messages.
<4> Sets the maximum length of the syslog message. The length must be between `480` and `4096` bytes. If this field is empty, the maximum length is set to the default value of `1024` bytes.
<5> Sets the UDP port number of the syslog endpoint that receives log messages.
<6> Specifies the syslog facility of log messages. If this field is empty, the facility is `local1`. Otherwise, you must specify a valid syslog facility such as `kern`, `user`, `mail`, `daemon`, `auth`, `syslog`, `lpr`, `news`, `uucp`, `cron`, `auth2`, `ftp`, `ntp`, `audit`, `alert`, `cron2`, `local0`, `local1`, `local2`, `local3`. `local4`, `local5`, `local6`, or `local7`.
+
[NOTE]
====
The `syslog` destination port must be UDP.
====

Configure Ingress access logging with a specific log format.

* You can specify `spec.logging.access.httpLogFormat` to customize the log format. The following example is an Ingress Controller definition that logs to a `syslog` endpoint with IP address 1.2.3.4 and port 10514:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Syslog
        syslog:
          address: 1.2.3.4
          port: 10514
      httpLogFormat: '%ci:%cp [%t] %ft %b/%s %B %bq %HM %HU %HV' <1>
----
<1> Specifies the format of the log message for an HTTP request. If this field is empty, log messages use the implementation's default HTTP log format.

Disable Ingress access logging.

* To disable Ingress access logging, leave `spec.logging` or `spec.logging.access` empty:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access: null
----

Allow the Ingress Controller to modify the HAProxy log length when using a sidecar.

* Use `spec.logging.access.destination.syslog.maxLength` if you are using `spec.logging.access.destination.type: Syslog`.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Syslog
        syslog:
          address: 1.2.3.4
          maxLength: 4096
          port: 10514
----
* Use `spec.logging.access.destination.container.maxLength` if you are using `spec.logging.access.destination.type: Container`.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  replicas: 2
  logging:
    access:
      destination:
        type: Container <1>
        container: <2>
          maxLength: 8192
----
<1> Specifies that logs should go to a sidecar container. The Ingress Operator configures the container, named *logs*, on the Ingress Controller pod and configures the Ingress Controller to write logs to the container. The expectation is that the administrator configures a custom logging solution that reads logs from this container. Using container logs means that logs may be dropped if the rate of logs exceeds the container runtime capacity or the custom logging solution capacity.
<2> No parameters exist for container logging, so this field must be empty.
