modules/nw-gcp-installing-global-access-configuration.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-gcp-vpc.adoc
// * installing/installing-restricted-networks-gcp

[id="nw-gcp-global-access-configuration_{context}"]
= Create an Ingress Controller with global access on GCP
You can create an Ingress Controller with global access on a new GCP cluster when your. Global access is only available to Ingress Controllers using internal load balancers.

.Prerequisites

* You created the `install-config.yaml` and complete any modifications to it.

.Procedure

Create an Ingress Controller with global access on a new GCP cluster.

. Change to the directory that contains the installation program and create a manifest file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./openshift-install create manifests --dir=<installation_directory> <1>
----
<1> For `<installation_directory>`, specify the name of the directory that
contains the `install-config.yaml` file for your cluster.
+
After creating the file, several network configuration files are in the
`manifests/` directory, as shown:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls <installation_directory>/manifests/cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml
----

. Open the `cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml` file in an editor and enter a custom resource (CR) that describes the Operator configuration you want:
+
.Sample `clientAccess` configuration to `Global`
[source,yaml]
----
  spec:
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      loadBalancer:
        providerParameters:
          gcp:
            clientAccess: Global <1>
          type: GCP
        scope: Internal          <2>
      type: LoadBalancerService
----
<1> Set `gcp.clientAccess` to `Global`.
<2> Global access is only available to Ingress Controllers using internal load balancers.

Commit message:

Fixed two typos that appear in the 4.8+ version of documentation.

modules/nw-gcp-installing-global-access-configuration.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-gcp-vpc.adoc
// * installing/installing-restricted-networks-gcp

[id="nw-gcp-global-access-configuration_{context}"]
= Create an Ingress Controller with global access on GCP
You can create an Ingress Controller that has global access to a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cluster. Global access is only available to Ingress Controllers using internal load balancers.

.Prerequisites

* You created the `install-config.yaml` and complete any modifications to it.

.Procedure

Create an Ingress Controller with global access on a new GCP cluster.

. Change to the directory that contains the installation program and create a manifest file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./openshift-install create manifests --dir=<installation_directory> <1>
----
<1> For `<installation_directory>`, specify the name of the directory that
contains the `install-config.yaml` file for your cluster.
+
After creating the file, several network configuration files are in the
`manifests/` directory, as shown:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls <installation_directory>/manifests/cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml
----

. Open the `cluster-ingress-default-ingresscontroller.yaml` file in an editor and enter a custom resource (CR) that describes the Operator configuration you want:
+
.Sample `clientAccess` configuration to `Global`
[source,yaml]
----
  spec:
    endpointPublishingStrategy:
      loadBalancer:
        providerParameters:
          gcp:
            clientAccess: Global <1>
          type: GCP
        scope: Internal          <2>
      type: LoadBalancerService
----
<1> Set `gcp.clientAccess` to `Global`.
<2> Global access is only available to Ingress Controllers using internal load balancers.
