modules/nw-ingress-setting-a-custom-default-certificate.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/ingress-operator.adoc

[id="nw-ingress-setting-a-custom-default-certificate_{context}"]
= Setting a custom default certificate

As an administrator, you can configure an Ingress Controller to use a custom
certificate by creating a `Secret` resource and editing the `IngressController`
custom resource (CR).

.Prerequisites

* You must have a certificate/key pair in PEM-encoded files, where the
certificate is signed by a trusted certificate authority and valid for the
Ingress domain.

* You must have an `IngressController` CR. You may use the default one:
+
----
$ oc --namespace openshift-ingress-operator get ingresscontrollers
NAME      AGE
default   10m
----

[WARNING]
====
If the default certificate is replaced, it *must* be signed by a public
certificate authority already included in the CA bundle as provided by the
container userspace.
====

.Procedure

The following assumes that the custom certificate and key pair are in the
`tls.crt` and `tls.key` files in the current working directory. Substitute the
actual path names for `tls.crt` and `tls.key`. You also may substitute another
name for `custom-certs-default` when creating the `Secret` resource and
referencing it in the `IngressController` CR.

[NOTE]
====
This action will cause the Ingress Controller to be redeployed, using a rolling deployment strategy.
====

. Create a `Secret` resource containing the custom certificate in the
`openshift-ingress` namespace using the `tls.crt` and `tls.key` files.
+
----
$ oc --namespace openshift-ingress create secret tls custom-certs-default --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key
----
+
. Update the `IngressController` CR to reference the new certificate secret:
+
----
$ oc patch --type=merge --namespace openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontrollers/default \
  --patch '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate":{"name":"custom-certs-default"}}}'
----
+
. Verify the update was effective:
+
----
$ oc get --namespace openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontrollers/default \
  --output jsonpath='{.spec.defaultCertificate}'
----
The output should look like:
+
----
map[name:custom-certs-default]
----
+
The certificate secret name should match the value used to update the CR.

Once the `IngressController` CR has been modified, the Ingress Operator
will update the Ingress Controller's deployment to use the custom certificate.

Commit message:

Ingress Controller requires CA to communicate with web console

modules/nw-ingress-setting-a-custom-default-certificate.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/ingress-operator.adoc

[id="nw-ingress-setting-a-custom-default-certificate_{context}"]
= Setting a custom default certificate

As an administrator, you can configure an Ingress Controller to use a custom
certificate by creating a `Secret` resource and editing the `IngressController`
custom resource (CR).

.Prerequisites

* You must have a certificate/key pair in PEM-encoded files, where the
certificate is signed by a trusted certificate authority and valid for the
Ingress domain.

* You must have an `IngressController` CR. You may use the default one:
+
----
$ oc --namespace openshift-ingress-operator get ingresscontrollers
NAME      AGE
default   10m
----

[WARNING]
====
If the default certificate is replaced, it *must* be signed by a public
certificate authority already included in the CA bundle as provided by the
container userspace.
====

.Procedure

The following assumes that the custom certificate and key pair are in the
`tls.crt` and `tls.key` files in the current working directory. Substitute the
actual path names for `tls.crt` and `tls.key`. You also may substitute another
name for `custom-certs-default` when creating the `Secret` resource and
referencing it in the `IngressController` CR.

[NOTE]
====
This action will cause the Ingress Controller to be redeployed, using a rolling deployment strategy.
====

. Create a `Secret` resource containing the custom certificate in the
`openshift-ingress` namespace using the `tls.crt` and `tls.key` files.
+
----
$ oc --namespace openshift-ingress create secret tls custom-certs-default --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key
----
+
. Update the `IngressController` CR to reference the new certificate secret:
+
----
$ oc patch --type=merge --namespace openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontrollers/default \
  --patch '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate":{"name":"custom-certs-default"}}}'
----
+
. Verify the update was effective:
+
----
$ oc get --namespace openshift-ingress-operator ingresscontrollers/default \
  --output jsonpath='{.spec.defaultCertificate}'
----
The output should look like:
+
----
map[name:custom-certs-default]
----
+
The certificate secret name should match the value used to update the CR.

Your Ingress Controller now uses the custom certificate, but it is not trusted
by the web console. You must expose your CA certificate so the Ingress
Controller can communicate with all routes.

. Configure the CA certificate as the cluster proxy certificate:
+
----
$ oc -n openshift-config create configmap custom-ca --from-file=ca-bundle.crt=example-ca.crt
$ oc patch proxy/cluster --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":"custom-ca"}}}'
----
+
. Configure the certificate as the Ingress Controller's default certificate:
+
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress create secret tls custom-default-cert --cert=example.crt --key=example.key
$ oc -n openshift-ingress-operator patch ingresscontrollers/default --type=merge \
  --patch='{"spec":{"defaultCertificate":{"name":"custom-default-cert"}}}'
----

Once the `IngressController` CR has been modified, the Ingress Operator
updates the Ingress Controller's deployment to use both certificates.
