modules/nw-networkpolicy-about.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// networking/configuring-networkpolicy.adoc

[id="nw-networkpolicy-about_{context}"]

= About network policy

In a cluster using a Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) plug-in that
supports NetworkPolicy, network isolation is controlled entirely by
NetworkPolicy objects. In {product-title} {product-version}, OpenShift SDN
supports using NetworkPolicy in its default network isolation mode.

[NOTE]
====
The Kubernetes `v1` NetworkPolicy features are available in {product-title}
except for egress policy types and IPBlock.
====

By default, all Pods in a project are accessible from other Pods and network
endpoints. To isolate one or more Pods in a project, you can create
NetworkPolicy objects in that project to indicate the allowed incoming
connections. Project administrators can create and delete NetworkPolicy objects
within their own project.

If a Pod is matched by selectors in one or more NetworkPolicy objects, then the
Pod will accept only connections that are allowed by at least one of those
NetworkPolicy objects. A Pod that is not selected by any NetworkPolicy objects
is fully accessible.

The following example NetworkPolicy objects demonstrate supporting different
scenarios:

* Deny all traffic:
+
To make a project deny by default, add a NetworkPolicy object that matches all
Pods but accepts no traffic:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: deny-by-default
spec:
  podSelector:
  ingress: []
----

* Only allow connections from the {product-title} Ingress Controller:
+
To make a project allow only connections from the {product-title} Ingress
Controller, add the following NetworkPolicy object: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-from-openshift-ingress
spec:
  ingress:
  - from:
    - namespaceSelector:
        matchLabels:
          network.openshift.io/policy-group: ingress
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
----
* Only accept connections from Pods within a project:
+
To make Pods accept connections from other Pods in the same project, but reject
all other connections from Pods in other projects, add the following
NetworkPolicy object: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: allow-same-namespace
spec:
  podSelector:
  ingress:
  - from:
    - podSelector: {}
----

* Only allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic based on Pod labels:
+
To enable only HTTP and HTTPS access to the Pods with a specific label
(`role=frontend` in following example), add a NetworkPolicy object similar to:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: allow-http-and-https
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      role: frontend
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 443
----

NetworkPolicy objects are additive, which means you can combine multiple
NetworkPolicy objects together to satisfy complex network requirements.

For example, for the NetworkPolicy objects defined in previous samples, you
can define both `allow-same-namespace` and `allow-http-and-https` policies
within the same project. Thus allowing the Pods with the label `role=frontend`,
to accept any connection allowed by each policy. That is, connections on any
port from Pods in the same namespace, and connections on ports `80` and
`443` from Pods in any namespace.

Commit message:

Add note regarding network policy and host network routers
- https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1768608
- https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1764220

modules/nw-networkpolicy-about.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// networking/configuring-networkpolicy.adoc

[id="nw-networkpolicy-about_{context}"]

= About network policy

In a cluster using a Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) Pod network
provider plug-in that supports NetworkPolicy, network isolation is controlled
entirely by NetworkPolicy objects. In {product-title} {product-version},
OpenShift SDN supports using NetworkPolicy in its default network isolation
mode.

[NOTE]
====
The Kubernetes `v1` NetworkPolicy features are available in {product-title}
except for egress policy types and IPBlock.
====

By default, all Pods in a project are accessible from other Pods and network
endpoints. To isolate one or more Pods in a project, you can create
NetworkPolicy objects in that project to indicate the allowed incoming
connections. Project administrators can create and delete NetworkPolicy objects
within their own project.

If a Pod is matched by selectors in one or more NetworkPolicy objects, then the
Pod will accept only connections that are allowed by at least one of those
NetworkPolicy objects. A Pod that is not selected by any NetworkPolicy objects
is fully accessible.

The following example NetworkPolicy objects demonstrate supporting different
scenarios:

* Deny all traffic:
+
To make a project deny by default, add a NetworkPolicy object that matches all
Pods but accepts no traffic:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: deny-by-default
spec:
  podSelector:
  ingress: []
----

* Only allow connections from the {product-title} Ingress Controller:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
In {product-title} {product-version}, you can allow connections from the Ingress Controller only on public cloud providers.
If your cluster is installed on a platform that uses the host network for the {product-title} router, enabling network policy for a project by defining at least one network policy object will block traffic from Pods in your project.
====
+
To make a project allow only connections from the {product-title} Ingress
Controller, add the following NetworkPolicy object: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-from-openshift-ingress
spec:
  ingress:
  - from:
    - namespaceSelector:
        matchLabels:
          network.openshift.io/policy-group: ingress
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
----
* Only accept connections from Pods within a project:
+
To make Pods accept connections from other Pods in the same project, but reject
all other connections from Pods in other projects, add the following
NetworkPolicy object: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: allow-same-namespace
spec:
  podSelector:
  ingress:
  - from:
    - podSelector: {}
----

* Only allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic based on Pod labels:
+
To enable only HTTP and HTTPS access to the Pods with a specific label
(`role=frontend` in following example), add a NetworkPolicy object similar to:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: allow-http-and-https
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      role: frontend
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 443
----

NetworkPolicy objects are additive, which means you can combine multiple
NetworkPolicy objects together to satisfy complex network requirements.

For example, for the NetworkPolicy objects defined in previous samples, you
can define both `allow-same-namespace` and `allow-http-and-https` policies
within the same project. Thus allowing the Pods with the label `role=frontend`,
to accept any connection allowed by each policy. That is, connections on any
port from Pods in the same namespace, and connections on ports `80` and
`443` from Pods in any namespace.
