modules/nw-sriov-installing-operator.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/multiple_networks/configuring-sr-iov.adoc

[id="installing-sr-iov-operator_{context}"]
= Installing SR-IOV Network Operator

As a cluster administrator, you can install the SR-IOV Network Operator using the {product-title} CLI or the web console.

[id="install-operator-cli"]
== Installing the Operator using the CLI

As a cluster administrator, you can install the Operator using the CLI.

.Prerequisites

* A cluster installed on bare-metal hardware with nodes that have hardware that supports SR-IOV.
* The {product-title} Command-line Interface (CLI), commonly known as `oc`.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a namespace for the SR-IOV Network Operator by completing the following actions:

.. Create the following Namespace Custom Resource (CR) that defines the `sriov-network-operator` namespace, and then save the YAML in the `sriov-namespace.yaml` file:
+
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: sriov-network-operator
  labels:
    openshift.io/run-level: "1"
----

.. Create the namespace by running the following command:
+
----
$ oc create -f sriov-namespace.yaml
----

. Install the SR-IOV Network Operator in the namespace you created in the previous step by creating the following objects:

.. Create the following OperatorGroup CR and save the YAML in the
`sriov-operatorgroup.yaml` file:
+
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
kind: OperatorGroup
metadata:
  name: sriov-network-operators
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  targetNamespaces:
  - sriov-network-operator
----

.. Create the OperatorGroup CR by running the following command:
+
----
$ oc create -f sriov-operatorgroup.yaml
----

.. Run the following command to get the `channel` value required for the next
step.
+
----
$ oc get packagemanifest sriov-network-operator -n openshift-marketplace -o jsonpath='{.status.channels[].name}'

alpha
----

.. Create the following Subscription CR and save the YAML in the `sriov-sub.yaml` file:
+
.Example Subscription
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: sriov-network-operator-subsription
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  channel: <channel> <1>
  name: sriov-network-operator
  source: redhat-operators <2>
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
----
<1> Specify the value from you obtained in the previous step for the `.status.channels[].name` parameter.
<2> You must specify the `redhat-operators` value.

.. Create the Subscription object by running the following command:
+
----
$ oc create -f sriov-sub.yaml
----

.. Change to the `sriov-network-operator` project:
+
----
$ oc project sriov-network-operator

Now using project "sriov-network-operator"
----

[id="install-operator-web-console"]
== Installing the Operator using the web console

As a cluster administrator, you can install the Operator using the web console.

[NOTE]
====
You have to create the Namespace CR and OperatorGroup CR as mentioned
in the previous section.
====

.Procedure

. Install the SR-IOV Network Operator using the {product-title} web console:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *SR-IOV Network Operator* from the list of available Operators, and then click *Install*.

.. On the *Create Operator Subscription* page, under *A specific namespace on the cluster* select *sriov-network-operator*. Then, click *Subscribe*.

. Optional: Verify that the SR-IOV Network Operator installed successfully:

.. Switch to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page.

.. Ensure that *SR-IOV Network Operator* is listed in the *sriov-network-operator* project with a *Status* of *InstallSucceeded*.
+
[NOTE]
====
During installation an Operator might display a *Failed* status.
If the installation later succeeds with an *InstallSucceeded* message, you can ignore the *Failed* message.
====

+
If the operator does not appear as installed, to troubleshoot further:

+
* Go to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page and inspect
the *Operator Subscriptions* and *Install Plans* tabs for any failure or errors
under *Status*.
* Go to the *Workloads* -> *Pods* page and check the logs for Pods in the
`sriov-network-operator` project.

Commit message:

Update SR-IOV marketplace channel jsonpath
- https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/20060

modules/nw-sriov-installing-operator.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/multiple_networks/configuring-sr-iov.adoc

[id="installing-sr-iov-operator_{context}"]
= Installing SR-IOV Network Operator

As a cluster administrator, you can install the SR-IOV Network Operator using the {product-title} CLI or the web console.

[id="install-operator-cli"]
== Installing the Operator using the CLI

As a cluster administrator, you can install the Operator using the CLI.

.Prerequisites

* A cluster installed on bare-metal hardware with nodes that have hardware that supports SR-IOV.
* The {product-title} Command-line Interface (CLI), commonly known as `oc`.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. Create a namespace for the SR-IOV Network Operator by completing the following actions:

.. Create the following Namespace Custom Resource (CR) that defines the `sriov-network-operator` namespace, and then save the YAML in the `sriov-namespace.yaml` file:
+
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: sriov-network-operator
  labels:
    openshift.io/run-level: "1"
----

.. Create the namespace by running the following command:
+
----
$ oc create -f sriov-namespace.yaml
----

. Install the SR-IOV Network Operator in the namespace you created in the previous step by creating the following objects:

.. Create the following OperatorGroup CR and save the YAML in the
`sriov-operatorgroup.yaml` file:
+
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
kind: OperatorGroup
metadata:
  name: sriov-network-operators
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  targetNamespaces:
  - sriov-network-operator
----

.. Create the OperatorGroup CR by running the following command:
+
----
$ oc create -f sriov-operatorgroup.yaml
----

.. Run the following command to get the `channel` value required for the next
step.
+
----
$ oc get packagemanifest sriov-network-operator -n openshift-marketplace -o jsonpath='{.status.defaultChannel}'

4.2
----

.. Create the following Subscription CR and save the YAML in the `sriov-sub.yaml` file:
+
.Example Subscription
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: sriov-network-operator-subscription
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  channel: <channel> <1>
  name: sriov-network-operator
  source: redhat-operators <2>
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
----
<1> Specify the value from you obtained in the previous step for the `.status.defaultChannel` parameter.
<2> You must specify the `redhat-operators` value.

.. Create the Subscription object by running the following command:
+
----
$ oc create -f sriov-sub.yaml
----

.. Change to the `sriov-network-operator` project:
+
----
$ oc project sriov-network-operator

Now using project "sriov-network-operator"
----

[id="install-operator-web-console"]
== Installing the Operator using the web console

As a cluster administrator, you can install the Operator using the web console.

[NOTE]
====
You have to create the Namespace CR and OperatorGroup CR as mentioned
in the previous section.
====

.Procedure

. Install the SR-IOV Network Operator using the {product-title} web console:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *SR-IOV Network Operator* from the list of available Operators, and then click *Install*.

.. On the *Create Operator Subscription* page, under *A specific namespace on the cluster* select *sriov-network-operator*. Then, click *Subscribe*.

. Optional: Verify that the SR-IOV Network Operator installed successfully:

.. Switch to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page.

.. Ensure that *SR-IOV Network Operator* is listed in the *sriov-network-operator* project with a *Status* of *InstallSucceeded*.
+
[NOTE]
====
During installation an Operator might display a *Failed* status.
If the installation later succeeds with an *InstallSucceeded* message, you can ignore the *Failed* message.
====

+
If the operator does not appear as installed, to troubleshoot further:

+
* Go to the *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* page and inspect
the *Operator Subscriptions* and *Install Plans* tabs for any failure or errors
under *Status*.
* Go to the *Workloads* -> *Pods* page and check the logs for Pods in the
`sriov-network-operator` project.
