modules/oadp-csi-snapshot-timeouts.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="csisnapshot-timeout_{context}"]
= CSI snapshot timeout

`CSISnapshotTimeout` specifies the time during creation to wait until  the `CSI VolumeSnapshot` status becomes `ReadyToUse`, before returning error as timeout. The default value is `10m`.

Use the `CSISnapshotTimeout`  for the following scenarios:

* With the CSI plugin.
* For very large storage volumes that may take longer than 10 minutes to snapshot. Adjust this timeout if timeouts are found in the logs.

[NOTE]
====
Typically, the default value for `CSISnapshotTimeout` does not require adjustment, because the default setting can accommodate large storage volumes.
====

.Procedure
* Edit the values in the `spec.csiSnapshotTimeout` block of the `Backup` CR manifest, as in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: velero.io/v1
kind: Backup
metadata:
 name: <backup_name>
spec:
 csiSnapshotTimeout: 10m
# ...
----

Commit message:

OADP-2758: adding to oadp-csi-timeout module

modules/oadp-csi-snapshot-timeouts.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="csisnapshot-timeout_{context}"]
= CSI snapshot timeout

`CSISnapshotTimeout` specifies the time during creation to wait until  the `CSI VolumeSnapshot` status becomes `ReadyToUse`, before returning error as timeout. The default value is `10m`.

Use the `CSISnapshotTimeout`  for the following scenarios:

* With the CSI plugin.
* For very large storage volumes that may take longer than 10 minutes to snapshot. Adjust this timeout if timeouts are found in the logs.

[IMPORTANT]
.Backup configuration "csiSnapshotTimeout" not functioning as expected
====
In OADP 1.2.0 and 1.2.1, the backup configuration setting `csiSnapshotTimeout` is not functioning as expected. When attempting to modify this parameter to a custom value, the backup process still utilizes the default timeout value instead of the specified one. This behavior persists regardless of the value assigned to `csiSnapshotTimeout`. This issue has been resolved in OADP 1.2.2. 
====

[NOTE]
====
Typically, the default value for `CSISnapshotTimeout` does not require adjustment, because the default setting can accommodate large storage volumes.
====

.Procedure
* Edit the values in the `spec.csiSnapshotTimeout` block of the `Backup` CR manifest, as in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: velero.io/v1
kind: Backup
metadata:
 name: <backup_name>
spec:
 csiSnapshotTimeout: 10m
# ...
----
