// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/understanding/olm/olm-common-terms.adoc

[id="olm-common-terms-glossary_{context}"]
= Common Operator Framework terms

[id="olm-common-terms-bundle_{context}"]
== Bundle
In the Bundle Format, a _bundle_ is a collection of an Operator CSV, manifests,
and metadata. Together, they form a unique version of an Operator that can be
installed onto the cluster.

[id="olm-common-terms-bundle-image_{context}"]
== Bundle image
In the Bundle Format, a _bundle image_ is a container image that is built from
Operator manifests and that contains one bundle. Bundle images are stored and
distributed by Open Container Initiative (OCI) spec container registries, such
as Quay.io or DockerHub.

[id="olm-common-terms-catalogsource_{context}"]
== CatalogSource
A _CatalogSource_ is a repository of CSVs, CRDs, and packages that define an
application.

[id="olm-common-terms-catalog-image_{context}"]
== Catalog image
In the Package Manifest Format, a _catalog image_ is a containerized datastore
that describes a set of Operator metadata and update metadata that can be
installed onto a cluster using OLM.

[id="olm-common-terms-channel_{context}"]
== Channel
A _channel_ defines a stream of updates for an Operator and is used to roll out
updates for subscribers. The head points to the latest version of that channel.
For example, a `stable` channel would have all stable versions of an Operator
arranged from the earliest to the latest.

An Operator can have several channels, and a Subscription binding to a certain
channel would only look for updates in that channel.

[id="olm-common-terms-channel-head_{context}"]
== Channel head
A _channel head_ refers to the latest known update in a particular channel.

[id="olm-common-terms-csv_{context}"]
== ClusterServiceVersion
A _ClusterServiceVersion_ (CSV) is a YAML manifest created from Operator
metadata that assists OLM in running the Operator in a cluster. It is the
metadata that accompanies an Operator container image, used to populate user
interfaces with information such as its logo, description, and version. It is
also a source of technical information that is required to run the Operator,
like the RBAC rules it requires and which custom resources (CRs) it manages or
depends on.

[id="olm-common-terms-dependency_{context}"]
== Dependency
An Operator may have a _dependency_ on another Operator being present in the
cluster. For example, the Vault Operator has a dependency on the etcd Operator
for its data persistence layer.

OLM resolves dependencies by ensuring that all specified versions of Operators
and CRDs are installed on the cluster during the installation phase. This
dependency is resolved by finding and installing an Operator in a Catalog that
satisfies the required CRD API, and is not related to packages or bundles.

[id="olm-common-terms-index-image_{context}"]
== Index image
In the Bundle Format, an _index image_ refers to an image of a database (a
database snapshot) that contains information about Operator bundles including
CSVs and CRDs of all versions. This index can host a history of Operators on a
cluster and be maintained by adding or removing Operators using the `opm` CLI
tool.

[id="olm-common-terms-installplan_{context}"]
== InstallPlan
An _InstallPlan_ is a calculated list of resources to be created to
automatically install or upgrade a CSV.

[id="olm-common-terms-operatorgroup_{context}"]
== OperatorGroup

An _OperatorGroup_ configures all Operators deployed in the same namespace as
the OperatorGroup object to watch for their CR in a list of namespaces or
cluster-wide.

[id="olm-common-terms-package_{context}"]
== Package
In the Bundle Format, a _package_ is a directory that encloses all released
history of an Operator with each version. A released version of an Operator is
described in a ClusterServiceVersion (CSV) manifest alongside the
CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs).

[id="olm-common-terms-registry_{context}"]
== Registry
A _registry_ is a database that stores bundle images of Operators, each with all
of its latest and historical versions in all channels.

[id="olm-common-terms-subscription_{context}"]
== Subscription
A _Subscription_ keeps CSVs up to date by tracking a channel in a package.

[id="olm-common-terms-update-graph_{context}"]
== Update graph
An _update graph_ links versions of CSVs together, similar to the update graph
of any other packaged software. Operators can be installed sequentially, or
certain versions can be skipped. The update graph is expected to grow only at
the head with newer versions being added.
