modules/olm-mirroring-catalog-manifests.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-mirroring-installation-images.adoc

[id="olm-mirror-catalog-manifests_{context}"]
= Generated manifests

After mirroring Operator catalog content to your mirror registry, a manifests directory is generated in your current directory.

If you mirrored content to a registry on the same network, the directory name takes the following pattern:

[source,text]
----
manifests-<index_image_name>-<random_number>
----

If you mirrored content to a registry on a disconnected host in the previous section, the directory name takes the following pattern:

[source,text]
----
manifests-index/<namespace>/<index_image_name>-<random_number>
----

[NOTE]
====
The manifests directory name is referenced in subsequent procedures.
====

The manifests directory contains the following files, some of which might require further modification:

* The `catalogSource.yaml` file is a basic definition for a `CatalogSource` object that is pre-populated with your index image tag and other relevant metadata. This file can be used as is or modified to add the catalog source to your cluster.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you mirrored the content to local files, you must modify your `catalogSource.yaml` file to remove any backslash (`/`) characters from the `metadata.name` field. Otherwise, when you attempt to create the object, it fails with an "invalid resource name" error.
====
* The `imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml` file defines an `ImageContentSourcePolicy` object that can configure nodes to translate between the image references stored in Operator manifests and the mirrored registry.
+
[NOTE]
====
If your cluster uses an `ImageContentSourcePolicy` object to configure repository mirroring, you can use only global pull secrets for mirrored registries. You cannot add a pull secret to a project.
====
* The `mapping.txt` file contains all of the source images and where to map them in the target registry. This file is compatible with the `oc image mirror` command and can be used to further customize the mirroring configuration.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you used the `--manifests-only` flag during the mirroring process and want to further trim the subset of packages to mirror, see the steps in the link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/operators/admin/olm-managing-custom-catalogs.html#olm-mirroring-package-manifest-catalog_olm-managing-custom-catalogs[Mirroring a package manifest format catalog image] procedure of the {product-title} 4.7 documentation about modifying your `mapping.txt` file and using the file with the `oc image mirror` command.
====

Commit message:

BZ2031789: add a note to change source in ICSP

modules/olm-mirroring-catalog-manifests.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-mirroring-installation-images.adoc

[id="olm-mirror-catalog-manifests_{context}"]
= Generated manifests

After mirroring Operator catalog content to your mirror registry, a manifests directory is generated in your current directory.

If you mirrored content to a registry on the same network, the directory name takes the following pattern:

[source,text]
----
manifests-<index_image_name>-<random_number>
----

If you mirrored content to a registry on a disconnected host in the previous section, the directory name takes the following pattern:

[source,text]
----
manifests-index/<namespace>/<index_image_name>-<random_number>
----

[NOTE]
====
The manifests directory name is referenced in subsequent procedures.
====

The manifests directory contains the following files, some of which might require further modification:

* The `catalogSource.yaml` file is a basic definition for a `CatalogSource` object that is pre-populated with your index image tag and other relevant metadata. This file can be used as is or modified to add the catalog source to your cluster.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you mirrored the content to local files, you must modify your `catalogSource.yaml` file to remove any backslash (`/`) characters from the `metadata.name` field. Otherwise, when you attempt to create the object, it fails with an "invalid resource name" error.
====
* The `imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml` file defines an `ImageContentSourcePolicy` object that can configure nodes to translate between the image references stored in Operator manifests and the mirrored registry.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
After the multistage mirroring is complete, edit the `imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml` file to change `source` to the source location of the container images.
====
+
[NOTE]
====
If your cluster uses an `ImageContentSourcePolicy` object to configure repository mirroring, you can use only global pull secrets for mirrored registries. You cannot add a pull secret to a project.
====
* The `mapping.txt` file contains all of the source images and where to map them in the target registry. This file is compatible with the `oc image mirror` command and can be used to further customize the mirroring configuration.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you used the `--manifests-only` flag during the mirroring process and want to further trim the subset of packages to mirror, see the steps in the link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/operators/admin/olm-managing-custom-catalogs.html#olm-mirroring-package-manifest-catalog_olm-managing-custom-catalogs[Mirroring a package manifest format catalog image] procedure of the {product-title} 4.7 documentation about modifying your `mapping.txt` file and using the file with the `oc image mirror` command.
====
