modules/ols-openshift-lightspeed-fips-support.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * lightspeed-docs-main/configure/ols-configuring-openshift-lightspeed.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="openshift-lightspeed-fips-support_{context}"]
= {ols-long} FIPS support

{ols-official} is designed for Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS).

FIPS is a set of publicly announced standards developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), a part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The primary purpose of FIPS is to ensure the security and interoperability of computer systems used by U.S. federal government agencies and their associated contractors.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When running on {ocp-product-title} in FIPS mode, it uses the {rhel} cryptographic libraries submitted, or planned to be submitted, to NIST for FIPS validation on only the `x86_64`, `ppc64le`, and `s390X` architectures. For more information about the NIST validation program, see link:https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-modules[Cryptographic Module Validation Program] (NIST). For the latest NIST status of the individual versions of {rhel} cryptographic libraries that have been submitted for validation, see link:https://access.redhat.com/en/compliance[Product compliance].
====

Commit message:

OLS-2538: Create short descriptions for modules in about assembly

modules/ols-openshift-lightspeed-fips-support.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * lightspeed-docs-main/configure/ols-configuring-openshift-lightspeed.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="openshift-lightspeed-fips-support_{context}"]
= {ols-long} FIPS support

[role="_abstract"]
{ols-official} supports Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and can be deployed on {ocp-short-name} clusters running in FIPS mode.

FIPS is a set of publicly announced standards developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), a part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The primary purpose of FIPS is to ensure the security and interoperability of computer systems used by U.S. federal government agencies and their associated contractors.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When running on {ocp-product-title} in FIPS mode, it uses the {rhel} cryptographic libraries submitted, or planned to be submitted, to NIST for FIPS validation on only the `x86_64`, `ppc64le`, and `s390X` architectures. For more information about the NIST validation program, see link:https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-modules[Cryptographic Module Validation Program] (NIST). For the latest NIST status of the individual versions of {rhel} cryptographic libraries that have been submitted for validation, see link:https://access.redhat.com/en/compliance[Product compliance].
====
