modules/ols-disabling-data-collection-operator.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * lightspeed-docs-main/about/ols-about-openshift-lightspeed.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ols-disabling-data-collection-operator_{context}"]
= Disabling data collection on the {ols-long} Service

The {ols-long} Service collects information about the questions you ask and the feedback you provide on the answers that the Service generates. You can disable data collection by modifying the `OLSConfig` custom resource (CR) file settings.

.Prerequisites

* You have an LLM provider available for use with the {ols-long} Service.

* You have installed the {ols-long} Operator.

* You have configured the `OLSConfig` CR file, which automatically deploys the {ols-long} Service.

.Procedure

. Open the {ols-long} `OLSConfig` CR file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit olsconfig cluster
----

. Modify the `spec.ols.userDataCollection` field to disable data collection for the {ols-long} CR.
+
.Example `OLSConfig` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ols.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: OLSConfig
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  ols:
    userDataCollection:
      feedbackDisabled: true # <1>
      transcriptsDisabled: true # <2>
----
<1> Specify whether to disable the feedback collection.
<2> Specify whether to disable the transcript collection.

. Save the file.

Commit message:

OLS-2538: Create short descriptions for modules in about assembly

modules/ols-disabling-data-collection-operator.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * lightspeed-docs-main/about/ols-about-openshift-lightspeed.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ols-disabling-data-collection-operator_{context}"]
= Disabling data collection on the {ols-long} Service

[role="_abstract"]
Disable data collection for {ols-short} by updating the telemetry settings in the `OLSConfig` custom resource (CR) file settings.

By default, {ols-long} collects information about the questions you ask and the feedback you provide on the answers that the Service generates.

.Prerequisites

* You have an LLM provider available for use with the {ols-long} Service.

* You have installed the {ols-long} Operator.

* You have configured the `OLSConfig` CR file, which automatically deploys the {ols-long} Service.

.Procedure

. Open the {ols-long} `OLSConfig` CR file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit olsconfig cluster
----

. Modify the `spec.ols.userDataCollection` field to disable data collection for the {ols-long} CR.
+
.Example `OLSConfig` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ols.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: OLSConfig
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  ols:
    userDataCollection:
      feedbackDisabled: true # <1>
      transcriptsDisabled: true # <2>
----
<1> Specify whether to disable the feedback collection.
<2> Specify whether to disable the transcript collection.

. Save the file.
