modules/op-constructing-pipelines-using-pipeline-builder.adoc, before:

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *openshift_pipelines/working-with-pipelines-using-the-developer-perspective.adoc

[id="op-constructing-pipelines-using-pipeline-builder_{context}"]
= Constructing Pipelines using the Pipeline Builder

In the *Developer* perspective of the console, you can use the *+Add* -> *Pipeline* -> *Pipeline builder* option to:

* Configure pipelines using either the *Pipeline builder* or the *YAML view*.
* Construct a pipeline flow using existing tasks and cluster tasks. When you install the OpenShift Pipelines Operator, it adds reusable pipeline cluster tasks to your cluster.
* Specify the type of resources required for the pipeline run, and if required, add additional parameters to the pipeline.
* Reference these pipeline resources in each of the tasks in the pipeline as input and output resources.
* If required, reference any additional parameters added to the pipeline in the task. The parameters for a task are prepopulated based on the specifications of the task.
* Use the Operator-installed, reusable snippets and samples to create detailed pipelines.

.Procedure

. In the *+Add* view of the *Developer* perspective, click the *Pipeline* tile to see the *Pipeline builder* page.
. Configure the pipeline using either the *Pipeline builder* view or the *YAML view*.
+
[NOTE]
====
The *Pipeline builder* view supports a limited number of fields whereas the *YAML view* supports all available fields. Optionally, you can also use the Operator-installed, reusable snippets and samples to create detailed Pipelines.
====
+
.YAML view
image::op-pipeline-yaml.png[]
+
To configure your pipeline using the *Pipeline Builder*:

.. Enter a unique name for the pipeline.
.. Select a task from the *Select Task* list to add a task to the pipeline. This example uses the *s2i-nodejs* task.
*** To add sequential tasks to the pipeline, click the plus icon to the right or left of the task, and from the *Select Task* list, select the task you want to add to the pipeline. For this example, use the plus icon to the right of the *s2i-nodejs* task to add an *openshift-client* task.
*** To add a parallel task to the existing task, click the plus icon displayed next to the task, and from the *Select Task* list, select the parallel task you want to add to the pipeline.
+
.Pipeline Builder
image::op-pipeline-builder.png[]
+
.. Click *Add Resources* to specify the name and type of resources that the pipeline run will use. These resources are then used by the tasks in the pipeline as inputs and outputs.
For this example:
... Add an input resource. In the *Name* field, enter `Source`, and then from the *Resource Type* drop-down list, select *Git*.
... Add an output resource. In the *Name* field, enter `Img`, and then from the *Resource Type* drop-down list, select *Image*.
.. Optional: The *Parameters* for a task are prepopulated based on the specifications of the task. If required, use the *Add Parameters* link to add additional parameters.
+
.. A *Missing Resources* warning is displayed on a task if the resources for the task are not specified. Click the *s2i-nodejs* task to see the side panel with details for the task.
+
.Tasks details in Pipelines Builder
image::op-pipeline-builder-task-details.png[]
+
.. In the task side panel, specify the resources and parameters for the *s2i-nodejs* task:

... In the *Input Resources* -> *Source* section, the *Select Resources* drop-down list displays the resources that you added to the pipeline. For this example, select *Source*.
... In the *Output Resources* -> *Image* section, click the *Select Resources* list, and select *Img*.
... If required, in the *Parameters* section, add more parameters to the default ones, by using the `$(params.<param-name>)` syntax.
... Similarly, add an input resource for the *openshift-client* task.
. Click *Create* to create and view the pipeline in the *Pipeline Details* page.
. Click the *Actions* drop-down menu, and then click *Start* to start the Pipeline.

Commit message:

Document adding workspaces to a pipeline via tha Pipeline Builder

modules/op-constructing-pipelines-using-pipeline-builder.adoc, after:

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *openshift_pipelines/working-with-pipelines-using-the-developer-perspective.adoc

[id="op-constructing-pipelines-using-pipeline-builder_{context}"]
= Constructing Pipelines using the Pipeline Builder

In the *Developer* perspective of the console, you can use the *+Add* -> *Pipeline* -> *Pipeline builder* option to:

* Configure pipelines using either the *Pipeline builder* or the *YAML view*.
* Construct a pipeline flow using existing tasks and cluster tasks. When you install the OpenShift Pipelines Operator, it adds reusable pipeline cluster tasks to your cluster.
* Specify the type of resources required for the pipeline run, and if required, add additional parameters to the pipeline.
* Reference these pipeline resources in each of the tasks in the pipeline as input and output resources.
* If required, reference any additional parameters added to the pipeline in the task. The parameters for a task are prepopulated based on the specifications of the task.
* Use the Operator-installed, reusable snippets and samples to create detailed pipelines.

.Procedure

. In the *+Add* view of the *Developer* perspective, click the *Pipeline* tile to see the *Pipeline builder* page.
. Configure the pipeline using either the *Pipeline builder* view or the *YAML view*.
+
[NOTE]
====
The *Pipeline builder* view supports a limited number of fields whereas the *YAML view* supports all available fields. Optionally, you can also use the Operator-installed, reusable snippets and samples to create detailed Pipelines.
====
+
.YAML view
image::op-pipeline-yaml.png[]
+
Configure your pipeline using the *Pipeline Builder*:

.. In the *Name* field, enter a unique name for the pipeline.
.. In the *Tasks* section, select a task from the *Select Task* list to add a task to the pipeline. In this example, use the *s2i-nodejs* task.
*** To add sequential tasks to the pipeline, click the plus icon to the right or left of the task, and from the *Select Task* list, select the task you want to add to the pipeline. For this example, use the plus icon to the right of the *s2i-nodejs* task to add an *openshift-client* task.
*** To add a parallel task to the existing task, click the plus icon displayed next to the task, and from the *Select Task* list, select the parallel task you want to add to the pipeline.
+
.Pipeline Builder
image::op-pipeline-builder.png[]
+
.. In the *Resources* section, click *Add Resources* to specify the name and type of resources for the pipeline run. These resources are then used by the tasks in the pipeline as inputs and outputs. For this example:
... Add an input resource. In the *Name* field, enter `Source`, and then from the *Resource Type* drop-down list, select *Git*.
... Add an output resource. In the *Name* field, enter `Img`, and then from the *Resource Type* drop-down list, select *Image*.
+
[NOTE]
====
A red icon appears next to the task if a resource is missing.
====
+
.. Optional: The *Parameters* for a task are pre-populated based on the specifications of the task. If required, use the *Add Parameters* link in the *Parameters* section to add additional parameters.

.. In the *Workspaces* section, click *Add workspace* and enter a unique workspace name in the *Name* field. You can add multiple workspaces to the pipeline.

.. In the *Tasks* section, click the *s2i-nodejs* task to see the side panel with details for the task. In the task side panel, specify the resources and parameters for the *s2i-nodejs* task:

... If required, in the *Parameters* section, add more parameters to the default ones, by using the $(params.<param-name>) syntax.
... In the *Image* section, enter `Img` as specified in the *Resources* section.
... Select a workspace from the *source* drop-down under *Workspaces* section.

.. Add resources, parameters, and workspaces to the *openshift-client* task.

. Click *Create* to create and view the pipeline in the *Pipeline Details* page.

. Click the *Actions* drop-down menu then click *Start*, to see the *Start Pipeline* page.

. The *Workspaces* section lists the workspaces you created earlier. Use the respective drop-down to specify the volume source for your workspace. You have the following options: *Empty Directory*, *Config Map*, *Secret*, *PersistentVolumeClaim*, or *VolumeClaimTemplate*.
