modules/ossm-threescale-webassembly-module-configuration.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// service_mesh/v2x/ossm-threescale-webassembly-module.adoc

[id="ossm-threescale-webassembly-module-configuration_{context}"]
= The 3scale WebAssembly module configuration

The `ServiceMeshExtension` custom resource spec provides the configuration that the `Proxy-WASM` module reads from.

The spec is embedded in the host and read by the `Proxy-WASM` module. Typically, the configurations are in the JSON file format for the modules to parse, however the `ServiceMeshExtension` resource can interpret the spec value as YAML and convert it to JSON for consumption by the module.

If you use the `Proxy-WASM` module in stand-alone mode, you must write the configuration using the JSON format. Using the JSON format means using escaping and quoting where needed within the `host` configuration files, for example `Envoy`. When you use the WebAssembly module with the `ServiceMeshExtension` resource, the configuration is in the YAML format. In this case, an invalid configuration forces the module to show diagnostics based on its JSON representation to a sidecar's logging stream.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `EnvoyFilter` custom resource is not a supported API, although it can be used in some 3scale Istio adapter or {SMProductShortName} releases. Using the `EnvoyFilter` custom resource is not recommended. Use the `ServiceMeshExtension` API instead of the `EnvoyFilter` custom resource.
If you must use the `EnvoyFilter` custom resource, you must specify the spec in JSON format.
====

Commit message:

THREESCALE-8781x: Updates for 3scale-auth-wasm.

modules/ossm-threescale-webassembly-module-configuration.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// service_mesh/v2x/ossm-threescale-webassembly-module.adoc

[id="ossm-threescale-webassembly-module-configuration_{context}"]
= The 3scale WebAssembly module configuration

The `WasmPlugin` custom resource spec provides the configuration that the `Proxy-WASM` module reads from.

The spec is embedded in the host and read by the `Proxy-WASM` module. Typically, the configurations are in the JSON file format for the modules to parse, however the `WasmPlugin` resource can interpret the spec value as YAML and convert it to JSON for consumption by the module.

If you use the `Proxy-WASM` module in stand-alone mode, you must write the configuration using the JSON format. Using the JSON format means using escaping and quoting where needed within the `host` configuration files, for example `Envoy`. When you use the WebAssembly module with the `WasmPlugin` resource, the configuration is in the YAML format. In this case, an invalid configuration forces the module to show diagnostics based on its JSON representation to a sidecar's logging stream.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The `EnvoyFilter` custom resource is not a supported API, although it can be used in some 3scale Istio adapter or {SMProductShortName} releases. Using the `EnvoyFilter` custom resource is not recommended. Use the `WasmPlugin` API instead of the `EnvoyFilter` custom resource.
If you must use the `EnvoyFilter` custom resource, you must specify the spec in JSON format.
====
