modules/otel-troubleshoot-metrics.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/otel/otel-troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="exposing-metrics_{context}"]
= Exposing the metrics

The OpenTelemetry Collector exposes the metrics about the data volumes it has processed. The following metrics are for spans, although similar metrics are exposed for metrics and logs signals:

`otelcol_receiver_accepted_spans`:: The number of spans successfully pushed into the pipeline.

`otelcol_receiver_refused_spans`:: The number of spans that could not be pushed into the pipeline.
`otelcol_exporter_sent_spans`:: The number of spans successfully sent to the destination.

`otelcol_exporter_enqueue_failed_spans`:: The number of spans failed to be added to the sending queue.

The Operator creates a `<cr_name>-collector-monitoring` telemetry service that you can use to scrape the metrics endpoint.

.Procedure

. Enable the telemetry service by adding the following lines in the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  config: |
    service:
      telemetry:
        metrics:
          address: ":8888" # <1>
----
<1> The address at which the internal collector metrics are exposed. Defaults to `:8888`.

// TODO Operator 0.82.0 has spec.observability.metrics.enableMetrics config that creates ServiceMonitors for users

. Retrieve the metrics by running the following command, which uses the port-forwarding Collector pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc port-forward <collector_pod>
----

. Access the metrics endpoint at `+http://localhost:8888/metrics+`.

Commit message:

Add documentation for the OTEL Collector monitoring dashboards
Signed-off-by: Israel Blancas <iblancasa@gmail.com>

modules/otel-troubleshoot-metrics.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/otel/otel-troubleshooting.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="exposing-metrics_{context}"]
= Exposing the metrics

The OpenTelemetry Collector exposes the metrics about the data volumes it has processed. The following metrics are for spans, although similar metrics are exposed for metrics and logs signals:

`otelcol_receiver_accepted_spans`:: The number of spans successfully pushed into the pipeline.

`otelcol_receiver_refused_spans`:: The number of spans that could not be pushed into the pipeline.
`otelcol_exporter_sent_spans`:: The number of spans successfully sent to the destination.

`otelcol_exporter_enqueue_failed_spans`:: The number of spans failed to be added to the sending queue.

The Operator creates a `<cr_name>-collector-monitoring` telemetry service that you can use to scrape the metrics endpoint.

.Procedure

. Enable the telemetry service by adding the following lines in the `OpenTelemetryCollector` custom resource:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  config: |
    service:
      telemetry:
        metrics:
          address: ":8888" # <1>
----
<1> The address at which the internal collector metrics are exposed. Defaults to `:8888`.

. Retrieve the metrics by running the following command, which uses the port-forwarding Collector pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc port-forward <collector_pod>
----

. Access the metrics endpoint at `+http://localhost:8888/metrics+`.

Alternatively, you can enable the creation of PodMonitors or ServiceMonitors (depending on the deployment mode of the OpenTelemetryCollector) to scrap the internal metrics by setting to `true` the `enableMetrics` setting.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
spec:
  mode: deployment
  observability:
    metrics:
      enableMetrics: true # <1>
----

If `User Workload Monitoring` is enabled, you will be able to visualize the scraped metrics in the `Observe` section from the OpenShift Console. Note you can select to visualize the specific metrics from an OpenTelemetry Collector instance or OpenTelemetry component (processor, receiver or exporter).
