modules/private-clusters-setting-api-private.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/install_config/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

[id="private-clusters-setting-api-private_{context}"]
= Restricting the API server to private

After you deploy a cluster to Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure, you can reconfigure the API server to use only the private zone.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Have access to the web console as a user with `admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. In the web portal or console for AWS or Azure, take the following actions:

.. Locate and delete appropriate load balancer component.
*** For AWS, delete the external load balancer. The API DNS entry in the private zone already points to the internal load balancer, which uses an identical configuration, so you do not need to modify the internal load balancer.
*** For Azure, delete the `api-internal` rule for the load balancer.

.. Delete the `api.$clustername.$yourdomain` DNS entry in the public zone.

. From your terminal, list the cluster machines:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machine -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                            STATE     TYPE        REGION      ZONE         AGE
lk4pj-master-0                  running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   17m
lk4pj-master-1                  running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1b   17m
lk4pj-master-2                  running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   17m
lk4pj-worker-us-east-1a-5fzfj   running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   15m
lk4pj-worker-us-east-1a-vbghs   running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   15m
lk4pj-worker-us-east-1b-zgpzg   running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1b   15m
----
+
You modify the control plane machines, which contain `master` in the name, in the following step.

. Remove the external load balancer from each control plane machine.
.. Edit a control plane `Machine` object to remove the reference to the external load balancer.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit machines -n openshift-machine-api <master_name> <1>
----
<1> Specify the name of the control plane, or master, `Machine` object to modify.

.. Remove the lines that describe the external load balancer, which are marked in the following example, and save and exit the object specification:
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
spec:
  providerSpec:
    value:
    ...
      loadBalancers:
      - name: lk4pj-ext <1>
        type: network <1>
      - name: lk4pj-int
        type: network
----
<1> Delete this line.

.. Repeat this process for each of the machines that contains `master` in the name.

Commit message:

BZ1869798: Add a note for UPI users for loadbalancer removal
BZ1869798: Add a note for UPI users for loadbalancer removal

BZ1869798: Change in message to show only IPI cluster

BZ1869798: Add a note for UPI users for loadbalancer removal

BZ1869798: Add a note for UPI users for loadbalancer removal

BZ1869798: Add a note for UPI users for loadbalancer removal

modules/private-clusters-setting-api-private.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/install_config/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

[id="private-clusters-setting-api-private_{context}"]
= Restricting the API server to private

After you deploy a cluster to Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure, you can reconfigure the API server to use only the private zone.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Have access to the web console as a user with `admin` privileges.

.Procedure

. In the web portal or console for AWS or Azure, take the following actions:

.. Locate and delete appropriate load balancer component.
*** For AWS, delete the external load balancer. The API DNS entry in the private zone already points to the internal load balancer, which uses an identical configuration, so you do not need to modify the internal load balancer.
*** For Azure, delete the `api-internal` rule for the load balancer.

.. Delete the `api.$clustername.$yourdomain` DNS entry in the public zone.

. Remove the external load balancers:
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can run the following steps only for an installer-provisioned infrastructure (IPI) cluster. For a user-provisioned infrastructure (UPI) cluster, you must manually remove or disable the external load balancers.
====
+
.. From your terminal, list the cluster machines:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machine -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                            STATE     TYPE        REGION      ZONE         AGE
lk4pj-master-0                  running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   17m
lk4pj-master-1                  running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1b   17m
lk4pj-master-2                  running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   17m
lk4pj-worker-us-east-1a-5fzfj   running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   15m
lk4pj-worker-us-east-1a-vbghs   running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1a   15m
lk4pj-worker-us-east-1b-zgpzg   running   m4.xlarge   us-east-1   us-east-1b   15m
----
+
You modify the control plane machines, which contain `master` in the name, in the following step.

.. Remove the external load balancer from each control plane machine.
... Edit a control plane `Machine` object to remove the reference to the external load balancer:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit machines -n openshift-machine-api <master_name> <1>
----
<1> Specify the name of the control plane, or master, `Machine` object to modify.

... Remove the lines that describe the external load balancer, which are marked in the following example, and save and exit the object specification:
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
spec:
  providerSpec:
    value:
    ...
      loadBalancers:
      - name: lk4pj-ext <1>
        type: network <1>
      - name: lk4pj-int
        type: network
----
<1> Delete this line.

... Repeat this process for each of the machines that contains `master` in the name.
