modules/quick-start-content-guidelines.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * web_console/creating-quick-start-tutorials.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="quick-start-content-guidelines_{context}"]
= Quick start content guidelines

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-card-copy_{context}"]
== Card copy

You can customize the title and description on a quick start card, but you cannot customize the status.

* Keep your description to one to two sentences.
* Start with a verb and communicate the goal of the user. Correct example:
+
----
Create a serverless application.
----

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-introduction_{context}"]
== Introduction

After clicking a quick start card, a side panel slides in that introduces the quick start and lists the tasks within it.

* Make your introduction content clear, concise, informative, and friendly.
* State the outcome of the quick start. A user should understand the purpose of the quick start before they begin.
* Give action to the user, not the quick start.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
In this quick start, you will deploy a sample application to {product-title}.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
This quick start shows you how to deploy a sample application to {product-title}.
----
* The introduction should be a maximum of four to five sentences, depending on the complexity of the feature. A long introduction can overwhelm the user.
* List the quick start tasks after the introduction content, and start each task with a verb. Do not specify the number of tasks because the copy would need to be updated every time a task is added or removed.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
Tasks to complete: Create a serverless application; Connect an event source; Force a new revision
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
You will complete these 3 tasks: Creating a serverless application; Connecting an event source; Forcing a new revision
----

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-task-steps_{context}"]
== Task steps

After the user clicks *Start*, a series of steps appears that they must perform to complete the quick start.

Follow these general guidelines when writing task steps:

* Use "Click" for buttons and labels. Use "Select" for checkboxes, radio buttons, and drop-down menus.
* Use "Click" instead of "Click on"
** *Correct example*:
+
----
Click OK.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
Click on the OK button.
----

* Tell users how to navigate between *Administrator* and *Developer* perspectives. Even if you think a user might already be in the appropriate perspective, give them instructions on how to get there so that they are definitely where they need to be.
+
Examples:
+
----
Enter the Developer perspective: In the main navigation, click the dropdown menu and select Developer.
Enter the Administrator perspective: In the main navigation, click the dropdown menu and select Admin.
----

* Use the "Location, action" structure. Tell a user where to go before telling them what to do.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
In the node.js deployment, hover over the icon.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
Hover over the icon in the node.js deployment.
----

* Keep your product terminology capitalization consistent.
* If you must specify a menu type or list as a dropdown, write "dropdown” as one word without a hyphen.
* Clearly distinguish between a user action and additional information on product functionality.
** *User action*:
+
----
Change the time range of the dashboard by clicking the dropdown menu and selecting time range.
----
** *Additional information*:
+
----
To look at data in a specific time frame, you can change the time range of the dashboard.
----

* Avoid directional language, like "In the top-right corner, click the icon". Directional language becomes outdated every time UI layouts change. Also, a direction for desktop users might not be accurate for users with a different screen size. Instead, identify something using its name.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
In the navigation menu, click Settings.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
In the left-hand menu, click Settings.
----
* Do not identify items by color alone, like "Click the gray circle". Color identifiers are not useful for sight-limited users, especially colorblind users. Instead, identify an item using its name or copy, like button copy.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
The success message indicates a connection.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
The message with a green icon indicates a connection.
----

* Use the second-person point of view, you, consistently:
** *Correct example*:
+
----
Set up your environment.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
Let's set up our environment.
----

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-check-your-work-module_{context}"]
== Check your work module

* After a user completes a step, a *Check your work* module appears. This module prompts the user to answer a yes or no question about the step results, which gives them the opportunity to review their work. For this module, you only need to write a single yes or no question.
** If the user answers *Yes*, a check mark will appear.
** If the user answers *No*, an error message appears with a link to relevant documentation, if necessary. The user then has the opportunity to go back and try again.

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-formatting-UI-elements_{context}"]
== Formatting UI elements

Format UI elements using these guidelines:

* Copy for buttons, dropdowns, tabs, fields, and other UI controls: Write the copy as it appears in the UI and bold it.
* All other UI elements—including page, window, and panel names: Write the copy as it appears in the UI and bold it.
* Code or user-entered text: Use monospaced font.
* Hints: If a hint to a navigation or masthead element is included, style the text as you would a link.
* CLI commands: Use monospaced font.
* In running text, use a bold, monospaced font for a command.
* If a parameter or option is a variable value, use an italic monospaced font.
* Use a bold, monospaced font for the parameter and a monospaced font for the option.

Commit message:

OLS-2560: Use OpenShift instead of {product-title} inside of code blocks

modules/quick-start-content-guidelines.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * web_console/creating-quick-start-tutorials.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="quick-start-content-guidelines_{context}"]
= Quick start content guidelines

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-card-copy_{context}"]
== Card copy

You can customize the title and description on a quick start card, but you cannot customize the status.

* Keep your description to one to two sentences.
* Start with a verb and communicate the goal of the user. Correct example:
+
----
Create a serverless application.
----

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-introduction_{context}"]
== Introduction

After clicking a quick start card, a side panel slides in that introduces the quick start and lists the tasks within it.

* Make your introduction content clear, concise, informative, and friendly.
* State the outcome of the quick start. A user should understand the purpose of the quick start before they begin.
* Give action to the user, not the quick start.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
In this quick start, you will deploy a sample application to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
This quick start shows you how to deploy a sample application to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
----
* The introduction should be a maximum of four to five sentences, depending on the complexity of the feature. A long introduction can overwhelm the user.
* List the quick start tasks after the introduction content, and start each task with a verb. Do not specify the number of tasks because the copy would need to be updated every time a task is added or removed.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
Tasks to complete: Create a serverless application; Connect an event source; Force a new revision
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
You will complete these 3 tasks: Creating a serverless application; Connecting an event source; Forcing a new revision
----

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-task-steps_{context}"]
== Task steps

After the user clicks *Start*, a series of steps appears that they must perform to complete the quick start.

Follow these general guidelines when writing task steps:

* Use "Click" for buttons and labels. Use "Select" for checkboxes, radio buttons, and drop-down menus.
* Use "Click" instead of "Click on"
** *Correct example*:
+
----
Click OK.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
Click on the OK button.
----

* Tell users how to navigate between *Administrator* and *Developer* perspectives. Even if you think a user might already be in the appropriate perspective, give them instructions on how to get there so that they are definitely where they need to be.
+
Examples:
+
----
Enter the Developer perspective: In the main navigation, click the dropdown menu and select Developer.
Enter the Administrator perspective: In the main navigation, click the dropdown menu and select Admin.
----

* Use the "Location, action" structure. Tell a user where to go before telling them what to do.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
In the node.js deployment, hover over the icon.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
Hover over the icon in the node.js deployment.
----

* Keep your product terminology capitalization consistent.
* If you must specify a menu type or list as a dropdown, write "dropdown” as one word without a hyphen.
* Clearly distinguish between a user action and additional information on product functionality.
** *User action*:
+
----
Change the time range of the dashboard by clicking the dropdown menu and selecting time range.
----
** *Additional information*:
+
----
To look at data in a specific time frame, you can change the time range of the dashboard.
----

* Avoid directional language, like "In the top-right corner, click the icon". Directional language becomes outdated every time UI layouts change. Also, a direction for desktop users might not be accurate for users with a different screen size. Instead, identify something using its name.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
In the navigation menu, click Settings.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
In the left-hand menu, click Settings.
----
* Do not identify items by color alone, like "Click the gray circle". Color identifiers are not useful for sight-limited users, especially colorblind users. Instead, identify an item using its name or copy, like button copy.
** *Correct example*:
+
----
The success message indicates a connection.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
The message with a green icon indicates a connection.
----

* Use the second-person point of view, you, consistently:
** *Correct example*:
+
----
Set up your environment.
----
** *Incorrect example*:
+
----
Let's set up our environment.
----

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-check-your-work-module_{context}"]
== Check your work module

* After a user completes a step, a *Check your work* module appears. This module prompts the user to answer a yes or no question about the step results, which gives them the opportunity to review their work. For this module, you only need to write a single yes or no question.
** If the user answers *Yes*, a check mark will appear.
** If the user answers *No*, an error message appears with a link to relevant documentation, if necessary. The user then has the opportunity to go back and try again.

[id="quick-start-content-guidelines-formatting-UI-elements_{context}"]
== Formatting UI elements

Format UI elements using these guidelines:

* Copy for buttons, dropdowns, tabs, fields, and other UI controls: Write the copy as it appears in the UI and bold it.
* All other UI elements—including page, window, and panel names: Write the copy as it appears in the UI and bold it.
* Code or user-entered text: Use monospaced font.
* Hints: If a hint to a navigation or masthead element is included, style the text as you would a link.
* CLI commands: Use monospaced font.
* In running text, use a bold, monospaced font for a command.
* If a parameter or option is a variable value, use an italic monospaced font.
* Use a bold, monospaced font for the parameter and a monospaced font for the option.
