modules/registry-operator-configuration-resource-overview.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * openshift_images/configuring-registry-operator.adoc


[id="registry-operator-configuration-resource-overview_{context}"]
= Image Registry Operator configuration parameters

The `configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io` resource offers the following
configuration parameters.

[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`managementState`
|`Managed`: The Operator updates the registry as configuration resources
are updated.

`Unmanaged`: The Operator ignores changes to the configuration resources.

`Removed`: The Operator removes the registry instance and tear down any
storage that the Operator provisioned.

|`logLevel`
|Sets `logLevel` of the registry instance. Defaults to  `Normal`.

The supported values for `logLevel` are:

* `Normal`
* `Debug`
* `Trace`
* `TraceAll`

|`httpSecret`
|Value needed by the registry to secure uploads, generated by default.

|`proxy`
|Defines the Proxy to be used when calling master API
and upstream registries.

|`storage`
|`Storagetype`: Details for configuring registry storage, for example S3 bucket
coordinates. Normally configured by default.

|`readOnly`
|Indicates whether the registry instance should reject attempts to push new images or delete existing ones.

|`requests`
|API Request Limit details. Controls how many parallel requests a given registry
instance will handle before queuing additional requests.

|`defaultRoute`
|Determines whether or not an external route is defined using the default
hostname. If enabled, the route uses re-encrypt encryption. Defaults to false.

|`routes`
|Array of additional routes to create. You provide the hostname and certificate
for the route.

|`replicas`
|Replica count for the registry.

|`spec.storage.managementState`

|The Image Registry Operator sets the `spec.storage.managementState` parameter to `Managed` on new installations or upgrades of clusters using installer-provisioned infrastructure on AWS or Azure.

* `Managed`: Determines that the Image Registry Operator manages underlying storage. If the Image Registry Operator's `managementState` is set to `Removed`, then the storage is deleted.
** If the `managementState` is set to `Managed`, the Image Registry Operator attempts to apply some default configuration on the underlying storage unit. For example, if set to `Managed`, the Operator tries to enable encryption on the S3 bucket before making it available to the registry. If you do not want the default settings to be applied on the storage you are providing, make sure the `managementState` is set to `Unmanaged`.
* `Unmanaged`: Determines that the Image Registry Operator ignores the storage settings. If the Image Registry Operator's `managementState` is set to `Removed`, then the storage is not deleted. If you provided an underlying storage unit configuration, such as a bucket or container name, and the `spec.storage.managementState` is not yet set to any value, then the Image Registry Operator configures it to `Unmanaged`.



|===

Commit message:

[Updated] Image Registry Operator configuration parameters `disableRedirect` is missing
Bugzilla: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2026611

modules/registry-operator-configuration-resource-overview.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * openshift_images/configuring-registry-operator.adoc


[id="registry-operator-configuration-resource-overview_{context}"]
= Image Registry Operator configuration parameters

The `configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io` resource offers the following
configuration parameters.

[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`managementState`
|`Managed`: The Operator updates the registry as configuration resources
are updated.

`Unmanaged`: The Operator ignores changes to the configuration resources.

`Removed`: The Operator removes the registry instance and tear down any
storage that the Operator provisioned.

|`logLevel`
|Sets `logLevel` of the registry instance. Defaults to  `Normal`.

The supported values for `logLevel` are:

* `Normal`
* `Debug`
* `Trace`
* `TraceAll`

|`httpSecret`
|Value needed by the registry to secure uploads, generated by default.

|`proxy`
|Defines the Proxy to be used when calling master API
and upstream registries.

|`storage`
|`Storagetype`: Details for configuring registry storage, for example S3 bucket
coordinates. Normally configured by default.

|`readOnly`
|Indicates whether the registry instance should reject attempts to push new images or delete existing ones.

|`requests`
|API Request Limit details. Controls how many parallel requests a given registry
instance will handle before queuing additional requests.

|`defaultRoute`
|Determines whether or not an external route is defined using the default
hostname. If enabled, the route uses re-encrypt encryption. Defaults to false.

|`routes`
|Array of additional routes to create. You provide the hostname and certificate
for the route.

|`replicas`
|Replica count for the registry.

|`disableRedirect`
| disableRedirect controls whether to route all data through the Registry,
rather than redirecting to the backend. Defaults to false.

|`spec.storage.managementState`

|The Image Registry Operator sets the `spec.storage.managementState` parameter to `Managed` on new installations or upgrades of clusters using installer-provisioned infrastructure on AWS or Azure.

* `Managed`: Determines that the Image Registry Operator manages underlying storage. If the Image Registry Operator's `managementState` is set to `Removed`, then the storage is deleted.
** If the `managementState` is set to `Managed`, the Image Registry Operator attempts to apply some default configuration on the underlying storage unit. For example, if set to `Managed`, the Operator tries to enable encryption on the S3 bucket before making it available to the registry. If you do not want the default settings to be applied on the storage you are providing, make sure the `managementState` is set to `Unmanaged`.
* `Unmanaged`: Determines that the Image Registry Operator ignores the storage settings. If the Image Registry Operator's `managementState` is set to `Removed`, then the storage is not deleted. If you provided an underlying storage unit configuration, such as a bucket or container name, and the `spec.storage.managementState` is not yet set to any value, then the Image Registry Operator configures it to `Unmanaged`.



|===
