modules/rhel-preparing-playbook-machine.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/adding-rhel-compute.adoc
// * post_installation_configuration/node-tasks.adoc

[id="rhel-preparing-playbook-machine_{context}"]
= Preparing the machine to run the playbook

Before you can add compute machines that use Red Hat Enterprise Linux as the operating system to an {product-title} {product-version} cluster, you must prepare a machine to run the playbook from. This machine is not part of the cluster but must be able to access it.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) on the machine that you run the playbook on.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` permission.

.Procedure

. Ensure that the `kubeconfig` file for the cluster and the installation program that you used to install the cluster are on the machine. One way to accomplish this is to use the same machine that you used to install the cluster.

. Configure the machine to access all of the RHEL hosts that you plan to use as compute machines. You can use any method that your company allows, including a bastion with an SSH proxy or a VPN.

. Configure a user on the machine that you run the playbook on that has SSH access to all of the RHEL hosts.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you use SSH key-based authentication, you must manage the key with an SSH agent.
====

. If you have not already done so, register the machine with RHSM and attach a pool with an `OpenShift` subscription to it:
.. Register the machine with RHSM:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager register --username=<user_name> --password=<password>
----

.. Pull the latest subscription data from RHSM:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager refresh
----

.. List the available subscriptions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager list --available --matches '*OpenShift*'
----

.. In the output for the previous command, find the pool ID for an {product-title} subscription and attach it:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager attach --pool=<pool_id>
----

. Enable the repositories required by {product-title} {product-version}:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager repos \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-rpms" \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-extras-rpms" \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-ansible-2.9-rpms" \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-ose-4.7-rpms"
----

. Install the required packages, including `openshift-ansible`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# yum install openshift-ansible openshift-clients jq
----
+
The `openshift-ansible` package provides installation program utilities and pulls in other packages that you require to add a RHEL compute node to your cluster, such as Ansible, playbooks, and related configuration files. The `openshift-clients` provides the `oc` CLI, and the `jq` package improves the display of JSON output on your command line.

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.7] GH38678: Adding info on playbook to preparing for playbook topic

modules/rhel-preparing-playbook-machine.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * machine_management/adding-rhel-compute.adoc
// * post_installation_configuration/node-tasks.adoc

[id="rhel-preparing-playbook-machine_{context}"]
= Preparing the machine to run the playbook

Before you can add compute machines that use {op-system-base-full} as the operating system to an {product-title} {product-version} cluster, you must prepare a {op-system-base} 7 machine to run an Ansible playbook that adds the new node to the cluster. This machine is not part of the cluster but must be able to access it.

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`) on the machine that you run the playbook on.
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` permission.

.Procedure

. Ensure that the `kubeconfig` file for the cluster and the installation program that you used to install the cluster are on the machine. One way to accomplish this is to use the same machine that you used to install the cluster.

. Configure the machine to access all of the RHEL hosts that you plan to use as compute machines. You can use any method that your company allows, including a bastion with an SSH proxy or a VPN.

. Configure a user on the machine that you run the playbook on that has SSH access to all of the RHEL hosts.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you use SSH key-based authentication, you must manage the key with an SSH agent.
====

. If you have not already done so, register the machine with RHSM and attach a pool with an `OpenShift` subscription to it:
.. Register the machine with RHSM:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager register --username=<user_name> --password=<password>
----

.. Pull the latest subscription data from RHSM:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager refresh
----

.. List the available subscriptions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager list --available --matches '*OpenShift*'
----

.. In the output for the previous command, find the pool ID for an {product-title} subscription and attach it:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager attach --pool=<pool_id>
----

. Enable the repositories required by {product-title} {product-version}:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# subscription-manager repos \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-rpms" \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-extras-rpms" \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-ansible-2.9-rpms" \
    --enable="rhel-7-server-ose-4.7-rpms"
----

. Install the required packages, including `openshift-ansible`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# yum install openshift-ansible openshift-clients jq
----
+
The `openshift-ansible` package provides installation program utilities and pulls in other packages that you require to add a RHEL compute node to your cluster, such as Ansible, playbooks, and related configuration files. The `openshift-clients` provides the `oc` CLI, and the `jq` package improves the display of JSON output on your command line.
