modules/rosa-edit-objects.adoc, before:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/rosa_cli/rosa-manage-objects-cli.adoc

[id="rosa-edit-objects_{context}"]
= Edit objects


This section describes the `edit` commands for clusters and resources.

[id="rosa-edit-cluster_{context}"]
== edit cluster

Allows edits to an existing cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--cluster
|Required: The name or ID (string) of the cluster to edit.

|--private
|Restricts a master API endpoint to direct, private connectivity.

|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile (string) from your credentials file.

|--v <level>
|The log level for V logs.
|===

.Examples
Edit a cluster named `mycluster` to make it private.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster --cluster=mycluster --private
----

Edit all cluster options interactively on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster --cluster=mycluster --interactive
----

[id="rosa-edit-ingress_{context}"]
== edit ingress

Edits the additional non-default application router for a cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--cluster
|Required: The name or ID (string) of the cluster to which the ingress will be added.

|--label-match
|The label match (string) for ingress. The format must be a comma-delimited list of key=value pairs. If no label is specified, all routes are exposed on both routers.

|--private
|Restricts the application route to direct, private connectivity.
|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile (string) from your credentials file.

|--v <level>
|The log level for V logs.
|===

.Examples

Make an additional ingress with the ID `a1b2` as a private connection on a cluster named `mycluster`.
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --private --cluster=mycluster a1b2
----

Update the router selectors for the additional ingress with the ID `a1b2` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --label-match=foo=bar --cluster=mycluster a1b2
----

Update the default ingress using the sub-domain identifier `apps` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --private=false --cluster=mycluster apps
----

[id="rosa-edit-machinepool_{context}"]
== edit machinepool

Allows edits to the machine pool in a cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> <machinepool_ID> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--cluster
|Required: The name or ID (string) of the cluster to edit on which the additional machine pool will be edited.

|--enable-autoscaling
|Enable or disable autoscaling of compute nodes. To enable autoscaling, use this argument with the `--min-replicas` and `--max-replicas` arguments. To disable autoscaling, use `--enable-autoscaling=false` with the `--replicas` argument.

|--max-replicas
|Specifies the maximum number of compute nodes when enabling autoscaling.

|--min-replicas
|Specifies the minimum number of compute nodes when enabling autoscaling.

|--replicas
|The number (integer) of machines for this machine pool.
|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile (string) from your credentials file.

|--v <level>
|The log level for V logs.
|===

.Examples

Set 4 replicas on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster=mycluster --replicas=4 --name=mp1
----

Enable autoscaling on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster-name=mycluster --enable-autoscaling --min-replicas=3 --max-replicas=5 --name=mp1
----

Disable autoscaling on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster-name=mycluster  --enable-autoscaling=false --replicas=3 --name=mp1
----

Modify the autoscaling range on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --max-replicas=9 --cluster=mycluster --name=mp1
----

Commit message:

Expanded information about machine pools and autoscaling.

modules/rosa-edit-objects.adoc, after:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/rosa_cli/rosa-manage-objects-cli.adoc

[id="rosa-edit-objects_{context}"]
= Edit objects


This section describes the `edit` commands for clusters and resources.

[id="rosa-edit-cluster_{context}"]
== edit cluster

Allows edits to an existing cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--cluster
|Required: The name or ID (string) of the cluster to edit.

|--private
|Restricts a master API endpoint to direct, private connectivity.

|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile (string) from your credentials file.

|--v <level>
|The log level for V logs.
|===

.Examples
Edit a cluster named `mycluster` to make it private.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster --cluster=mycluster --private
----

Edit all cluster options interactively on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit cluster --cluster=mycluster --interactive
----

[id="rosa-edit-ingress_{context}"]
== edit ingress

Edits the additional non-default application router for a cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--cluster
|Required: The name or ID (string) of the cluster to which the ingress will be added.

|--label-match
|The label match (string) for ingress. The format must be a comma-delimited list of key=value pairs. If no label is specified, all routes are exposed on both routers.

|--private
|Restricts the application route to direct, private connectivity.
|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile (string) from your credentials file.

|--v <level>
|The log level for V logs.
|===

.Examples

Make an additional ingress with the ID `a1b2` as a private connection on a cluster named `mycluster`.
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --private --cluster=mycluster a1b2
----

Update the router selectors for the additional ingress with the ID `a1b2` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --label-match=foo=bar --cluster=mycluster a1b2
----

Update the default ingress using the sub-domain identifier `apps` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit ingress --private=false --cluster=mycluster apps
----

[id="rosa-edit-machinepool_{context}"]
== edit machinepool

Allows edits to the machine pool in a cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> <machinepool_ID> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--cluster
|Required: The name or ID (string) of the cluster to edit on which the additional machine pool will be edited.

|--enable-autoscaling
|Enable or disable autoscaling of compute nodes. To enable autoscaling, use this argument with the `--min-replicas` and `--max-replicas` arguments. To disable autoscaling, use `--enable-autoscaling=false` with the `--replicas` argument.

|--labels
|The labels (string) for the machine pool. The format must be a comma-delimited list of key=value pairs. Editing this value only affects newly created nodes of the machine pool, which are created by increasing the node number, and does not affect the existing nodes. This list overwrites any modifications made to node labels on an ongoing basis.

|--max-replicas
|Specifies the maximum number of compute nodes when enabling autoscaling.

|--min-replicas
|Specifies the minimum number of compute nodes when enabling autoscaling.

|--replicas
|Required when autoscaling is not configured. The number (integer) of machines for this machine pool.

|--taints
|Taints for the machine pool. This string value should be formatted as a comma-separated list of `key=value:ScheduleType`. Editing this value only affect newly created nodes of the machine pool, which are created by increasing the node number, and does not affect the existing nodes. This list overwrites any modifications made to Node taints on an ongoing basis.
|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile (string) from your credentials file.

|--v <level>
|The log level for V logs.
|===

.Examples

Set 4 replicas on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster=mycluster --replicas=4 --name=mp1
----

Enable autoscaling on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster-name=mycluster --enable-autoscaling --min-replicas=3 --max-replicas=5 --name=mp1
----

Disable autoscaling on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --cluster-name=mycluster  --enable-autoscaling=false --replicas=3 --name=mp1
----

Modify the autoscaling range on a machine pool named `mp1` on a cluster named `mycluster`.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa edit machinepool --max-replicas=9 --cluster=mycluster --name=mp1
----
