modules/rosa-required-aws-service-quotas.adoc, before:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// getting_started_rosa/rosa-required-aws-service-quotas.adoc


[id="rosa-required-aws-service-quotas_{context}"]
= Required AWS service quotas

The table below describes the AWS service quotas and levels required to create and run an {product-title} cluster.

If you need to modify or increase a specific quota, please refer to Amazon's documentation on link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas/latest/userguide/request-quota-increase.html[requesting a quota inscrease].

[options="header"]
|===
|Quota name |Service code |Quota code| Minimum required value | Recommended value

|Number of EIPs - VPC EIPs
|ec2
|L-0263D0A3
|5
|5

|Running On-Demand Standard (A, C, D, H, I, M, R, T, Z) instances
|ec2
|L-1216C47A
|100
|100

|VPCs per Region
|vpc
|L-F678F1CE
|5
|5

|Internet gateways per Region
|vpc
|L-A4707A72
|5
|5

|Network interfaces per Region
|vpc
|L-DF5E4CA3
|5,000
|5,000

|General Purpose SSD (gp2) volume storage
|ebs
|L-D18FCD1D
|300
|300

|Number of EBS snapshots
|ebs
|L-309BACF6
|300
|300

|Provisioned IOPS
|ebs
|L-B3A130E6
|300,000
|300,000

|Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1) volume storage
|ebs
|L-FD252861
|300
|300

|Application Load Balancers per Region
|elasticloadbalancing
|L-53DA6B97
|50
|50

|Classic Load Balancers per Region
|elasticloadbalancing
|L-E9E9831D
|20
|20
|===

Commit message:

Added note about known issue with AWS quota checker.

modules/rosa-required-aws-service-quotas.adoc, after:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// getting_started_rosa/rosa-required-aws-service-quotas.adoc


[id="rosa-required-aws-service-quotas_{context}"]
= Required AWS service quotas

The table below describes the AWS service quotas and levels required to create and run an {product-title} cluster.

[NOTE]
====
The AWS SDK allows ROSA to check quotas, but the AWS SDK calculation does not include your existing usage. Therefore, it is possible that the quota check can pass in the AWS SDK yet the cluster creation can fail. To fix this issue, increase your quota.
====

If you need to modify or increase a specific quota, see Amazon's documentation on link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/servicequotas/latest/userguide/request-quota-increase.html[requesting a quota increase].

[options="header"]
|===
|Quota name |Service code |Quota code| Minimum required value | Recommended value

|Number of EIPs - VPC EIPs
|ec2
|L-0263D0A3
|5
|5

|Running On-Demand Standard (A, C, D, H, I, M, R, T, Z) instances
|ec2
|L-1216C47A
|100
|100

|VPCs per Region
|vpc
|L-F678F1CE
|5
|5

|Internet gateways per Region
|vpc
|L-A4707A72
|5
|5

|Network interfaces per Region
|vpc
|L-DF5E4CA3
|5,000
|5,000

|General Purpose SSD (gp2) volume storage
|ebs
|L-D18FCD1D
|300
|300

|Number of EBS snapshots
|ebs
|L-309BACF6
|300
|300

|Provisioned IOPS
|ebs
|L-B3A130E6
|300,000
|300,000

|Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1) volume storage
|ebs
|L-FD252861
|300
|300

|Application Load Balancers per Region
|elasticloadbalancing
|L-53DA6B97
|50
|50

|Classic Load Balancers per Region
|elasticloadbalancing
|L-E9E9831D
|20
|20
|===
