modules/rosa-aws-privatelink-create-cluster.adoc, before:

[id="rosa-aws-privatelink-create-cluster.adoc_{context}"]
= Creating an AWS PrivateLink cluster

You can create an AWS PrivateLink cluster using the `rosa` CLI.

.Prerequisites

You have installed {product-title}.

.Procedure

Creating a cluster can take up to 40 minutes.

. With AWS PrivateLink, you can create a cluster with a single availability zone (Single-AZ) or multiple availability zones (Multi-AZ). In either case, your machine's  classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) must match your virtual private cloud's CIDR. See https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-vpc.html#installation-custom-aws-vpc-requirements_installing-aws-vpc[Requirements for using your own VPC] and link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-vpc.html#installation-custom-aws-vpc-validation_installing-aws-vpc[VPC Validation] for more information.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you use a firewall, you must configure it so that {product-title} can access the sites that it requires to function.

For more information, see the AWS PrivateLink firewall prerequisites section.
====


** To create a Single-AZ cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --private-link --cluster-name=<cluster-name> [--machine-cidr=<VPC CIDR>/16] --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id>
----
** To create a Multi-AZ cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --private-link --multi-az --cluster-name=<cluster-name> [--machine-cidr=<VPC CIDR>/16] --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id1>,<private-subnet-id2>,<private-subnet-id3>
----

. Enter the following command to check the status of your cluster. During cluster creation, the `State` field from the output will transition from `pending` to `installing`, and finally to `ready`.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ rosa describe cluster --cluster=<cluster_name>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If installation fails or the `State` field does not change to `ready` after 40 minutes, check the installation troubleshooting documentation for more details.
====

. Enter the following command to follow the OpenShift installer logs to track the progress of your cluster:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ rosa logs install --cluster=<cluster_name> --watch
----

Commit message:

Added note that PrivateLink is only supported on existing VPCs

modules/rosa-aws-privatelink-create-cluster.adoc, after:

[id="rosa-aws-privatelink-create-cluster.adoc_{context}"]
= Creating an AWS PrivateLink cluster

You can create an AWS PrivateLink cluster using the `rosa` CLI.
+
[NOTE]
====
AWS PrivateLink is supported on existing VPCs only.
====

.Prerequisites

You have installed {product-title}.

.Procedure

Creating a cluster can take up to 40 minutes.

. With AWS PrivateLink, you can create a cluster with a single availability zone (Single-AZ) or multiple availability zones (Multi-AZ). In either case, your machine's  classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) must match your virtual private cloud's CIDR. See https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-vpc.html#installation-custom-aws-vpc-requirements_installing-aws-vpc[Requirements for using your own VPC] and link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/installing/installing_aws/installing-aws-vpc.html#installation-custom-aws-vpc-validation_installing-aws-vpc[VPC Validation] for more information.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you use a firewall, you must configure it so that {product-title} can access the sites that it requires to function.

For more information, see the AWS PrivateLink firewall prerequisites section.
====


** To create a Single-AZ cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --private-link --cluster-name=<cluster-name> [--machine-cidr=<VPC CIDR>/16] --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id>
----
** To create a Multi-AZ cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --private-link --multi-az --cluster-name=<cluster-name> [--machine-cidr=<VPC CIDR>/16] --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id1>,<private-subnet-id2>,<private-subnet-id3>
----

. Enter the following command to check the status of your cluster. During cluster creation, the `State` field from the output will transition from `pending` to `installing`, and finally to `ready`.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ rosa describe cluster --cluster=<cluster_name>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If installation fails or the `State` field does not change to `ready` after 40 minutes, check the installation troubleshooting documentation for more details.
====

. Enter the following command to follow the OpenShift installer logs to track the progress of your cluster:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ rosa logs install --cluster=<cluster_name> --watch
----
