modules/rosa-policy-identity-access-management.adoc, before:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * assemblies/rosa-policy-process-security.adoc

[id="rosa-policy-identity-access-management_{context}"]
= Identity and access management
Most access by Red Hat site reliability engineering (SRE) teams is done by using cluster Operators through automated configuration management.

[id="subprocessors_{context}"]
== Subprocessors
For a list of the available subprocessors, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5528091[Red Hat Subprocessor List] on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

[id="rosa-policy-sre-access_{context}"]
== SRE access to all {product-title} clusters
SREs access {product-title} clusters through the web console or command-line tools. Authentication requires multi-factor authentication (MFA) with industry-standard requirements for password complexity and account lockouts. SREs must authenticate as individuals to ensure auditability. All authentication attempts are logged to a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system.

SREs access private clusters using an encrypted tunnel through a hardened SRE support pod running in the cluster. Connections to the SRE support pod are permitted only from a secured Red Hat network using an IP allow-list. In addition to the cluster authentication controls described above, authentication to the SRE support pod is controlled by using SSH keys. SSH key authorization is limited to SRE staff and automatically synchronized with Red Hat corporate directory data. Corporate directory data is secured and controlled by HR systems, including management review, approval, and audits.

[id="rosa-policy-privileged-access-control_{context}"]
== Privileged access controls in {product-title}
SRE adheres to the principle of least privilege when accessing {product-title} and AWS components. There are four basic categories of manual SRE access:

- SRE admin access through the Red Hat Portal with normal two-factor authentication and no privileged elevation.
- SRE admin access through the Red Hat corporate SSO with normal two-factor authentication and no privileged elevation.
- OpenShift elevation, which is a manual elevation using Red Hat SSO. Access is limited to 2 hours, is fully audited, and requires management approval.
- AWS access or elevation, which is a manual elevation for AWS console or CLI access. Access is limited to 60 minutes and is fully audited.

Each of these access types have different levels of access to components:

[cols= "4a,6a,5a,4a,3a",options="header"]

|===

| Component | Typical SRE admin access (Red Hat Portal) | Typical SRE admin access (Red Hat SSO) |Openshift elevation | Cloud provider access or elevation

| OpenShift Cluster Manager (OCM) | R/W | No access | No access | No access
| OpenShift console | No access | R/W | R/W | No access
| Node Operatiing  system | No access | A specific list of elevated OS and network permissions. | A specific list of elevated OS and network permissions. | No access
| AWS Console | No access | No access, but this is the account used to request cloud provider access. | No access | All cloud provider permissions using the SRE identity.

|===

[id="rosa-policy-sre-aws-infra-access_{context}"]
== SRE access to AWS accounts
Red Hat personnel do not access AWS accounts in the course of routine {product-title} operations. For emergency troubleshooting purposes, the SREs have well-defined and auditable procedures to access cloud infrastructure accounts.

SREs generate a short-lived AWS access token for a reserved role using the AWS Security Token Service (STS). Access to the STS token is audit-logged and traceable back to individual users. Both STS and non-STS clusters use the AWS STS service for SRE access. For non-STS clusters, the `BYOCAdminAccess` role has the `AdministratorAccess` IAM policy attached, and this role is used for administration. For STS clusters, the `ManagedOpenShift-Support-Role` has the `ManagedOpenShift-Support-Access` policy attached, and this role is used for administration.

[id="rosa-policy-rh-access_{context}"]
== Red Hat support access
Members of the Red Hat Customer Experience and Engagement (CEE) team typically have read-only access to parts of the cluster. Specifically, CEE has limited access to the core and product namespaces and does not have access to the customer namespaces.

[cols= "2a,4a,4a,4a,4a",options="header"]

|===

| Role | Core namespace | Layered product namespace | Customer namespace | AWS account^*^

|OpenShift SRE| Read: All

Write: Very

limited ^[1]^
| Read: All

Write: None
| Read: None^[2]^

Write: None
|Read: All ^[3]^

Write: All ^[3]^

|CEE
|Read: All

Write: None

|Read: All

Write: None

|Read: None^[2]^

Write: None

|Read: None

Write: None

|Customer administrator
|Read: None

Write: None

|Read: None

Write: None

| Read: All

Write: All

|Read: All

Write: All

|Customer user
|Read: None

Write: None

|Read: None

Write: None

|Read: Limited^[4]^

Write: Limited^[4]^

|Read: None

Write: None

|Everybody else
|Read: None

Write: None
|Read: None

Write: None
|Read: None

Write: None
|Read: None

Write: None

|===
--
1. Limited to addressing common use cases such as failing deployments, upgrading a cluster, and replacing bad worker nodes.
2. Red Hat associates have no access to customer data by default.
3. SRE access to the AWS account is an emergency procedure for exceptional troubleshooting during a documented incident.
4. Limited to what is granted through RBAC by the Customer Administrator, as well as namespaces created by the user.
--

[id="rosa-policy-customer-access_{context}"]
== Customer access
Customer access is limited to namespaces created by the customer and permissions that are granted using RBAC by the Customer Administrator role. Access to the underlying infrastructure or product namespaces is generally not permitted without `cluster-admin` access. More information on customer access and authentication can be found in the "Understanding Authentication" section of the documentation.

[id="rosa-policy-access-approval_{context}"]
== Access approval and review
New SRE user access requires management approval. Separated or transferred SRE accounts are removed as authorized users through an automated process. Additionally, the SRE performs periodic access review, including management sign-off of authorized user lists.

Commit message:

OSDOCS-2809: Remove SRE support pod info

modules/rosa-policy-identity-access-management.adoc, after:


// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * assemblies/rosa-policy-process-security.adoc

[id="rosa-policy-identity-access-management_{context}"]
= Identity and access management
Most access by Red Hat site reliability engineering (SRE) teams is done by using cluster Operators through automated configuration management.

[id="subprocessors_{context}"]
== Subprocessors
For a list of the available subprocessors, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/5528091[Red Hat Subprocessor List] on the Red Hat Customer Portal.

[id="rosa-policy-sre-access_{context}"]
== SRE access to all {product-title} clusters
SREs access {product-title} clusters through the web console or command-line tools. Authentication requires multi-factor authentication (MFA) with industry-standard requirements for password complexity and account lockouts. SREs must authenticate as individuals to ensure auditability. All authentication attempts are logged to a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system.

SREs access private clusters using an encrypted HTTP connection. Connections are permitted only from a secured Red Hat network using either an IP allowlist, or a private cloud provider link.

[id="rosa-policy-privileged-access-control_{context}"]
== Privileged access controls in {product-title}
SRE adheres to the principle of least privilege when accessing {product-title} and AWS components. There are four basic categories of manual SRE access:

- SRE admin access through the Red Hat Portal with normal two-factor authentication and no privileged elevation.
- SRE admin access through the Red Hat corporate SSO with normal two-factor authentication and no privileged elevation.
- OpenShift elevation, which is a manual elevation using Red Hat SSO. Access is limited to 2 hours, is fully audited, and requires management approval.
- AWS access or elevation, which is a manual elevation for AWS console or CLI access. Access is limited to 60 minutes and is fully audited.

Each of these access types have different levels of access to components:

[cols= "4a,6a,5a,4a,3a",options="header"]

|===

| Component | Typical SRE admin access (Red Hat Portal) | Typical SRE admin access (Red Hat SSO) |Openshift elevation | Cloud provider access or elevation

| OpenShift Cluster Manager (OCM) | R/W | No access | No access | No access
| OpenShift console | No access | R/W | R/W | No access
| Node Operatiing  system | No access | A specific list of elevated OS and network permissions. | A specific list of elevated OS and network permissions. | No access
| AWS Console | No access | No access, but this is the account used to request cloud provider access. | No access | All cloud provider permissions using the SRE identity.

|===

[id="rosa-policy-sre-aws-infra-access_{context}"]
== SRE access to AWS accounts
Red Hat personnel do not access AWS accounts in the course of routine {product-title} operations. For emergency troubleshooting purposes, the SREs have well-defined and auditable procedures to access cloud infrastructure accounts.

SREs generate a short-lived AWS access token for a reserved role using the AWS Security Token Service (STS). Access to the STS token is audit-logged and traceable back to individual users. Both STS and non-STS clusters use the AWS STS service for SRE access. For non-STS clusters, the `BYOCAdminAccess` role has the `AdministratorAccess` IAM policy attached, and this role is used for administration. For STS clusters, the `ManagedOpenShift-Support-Role` has the `ManagedOpenShift-Support-Access` policy attached, and this role is used for administration.

[id="rosa-policy-rh-access_{context}"]
== Red Hat support access
Members of the Red Hat Customer Experience and Engagement (CEE) team typically have read-only access to parts of the cluster. Specifically, CEE has limited access to the core and product namespaces and does not have access to the customer namespaces.

[cols= "2a,4a,4a,4a,4a",options="header"]

|===

| Role | Core namespace | Layered product namespace | Customer namespace | AWS account^*^

|OpenShift SRE| Read: All

Write: Very

limited ^[1]^
| Read: All

Write: None
| Read: None^[2]^

Write: None
|Read: All ^[3]^

Write: All ^[3]^

|CEE
|Read: All

Write: None

|Read: All

Write: None

|Read: None^[2]^

Write: None

|Read: None

Write: None

|Customer administrator
|Read: None

Write: None

|Read: None

Write: None

| Read: All

Write: All

|Read: All

Write: All

|Customer user
|Read: None

Write: None

|Read: None

Write: None

|Read: Limited^[4]^

Write: Limited^[4]^

|Read: None

Write: None

|Everybody else
|Read: None

Write: None
|Read: None

Write: None
|Read: None

Write: None
|Read: None

Write: None

|===
--
1. Limited to addressing common use cases such as failing deployments, upgrading a cluster, and replacing bad worker nodes.
2. Red Hat associates have no access to customer data by default.
3. SRE access to the AWS account is an emergency procedure for exceptional troubleshooting during a documented incident.
4. Limited to what is granted through RBAC by the Customer Administrator, as well as namespaces created by the user.
--

[id="rosa-policy-customer-access_{context}"]
== Customer access
Customer access is limited to namespaces created by the customer and permissions that are granted using RBAC by the Customer Administrator role. Access to the underlying infrastructure or product namespaces is generally not permitted without `cluster-admin` access. More information on customer access and authentication can be found in the "Understanding Authentication" section of the documentation.

[id="rosa-policy-access-approval_{context}"]
== Access approval and review
New SRE user access requires management approval. Separated or transferred SRE accounts are removed as authorized users through an automated process. Additionally, the SRE performs periodic access review, including management sign-off of authorized user lists.
