modules/security-context-constraints-about.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.adoc

[id="security-context-constraints-about_{context}"]
= About security context constraints

Similar to the way that RBAC resources control user access, administrators can use _security context constraints_ (SCCs) to control permissions for pods. These permissions include actions that a pod can perform and what resources it can access. You can use SCCs to define a set of conditions that a pod must run with to be accepted into the system.

Security context constraints allow an administrator to control:

* Whether a pod can run privileged containers
* The capabilities that a container can request
* The use of host directories as volumes
* The SELinux context of the container
* The container user ID
* The use of host namespaces and networking
* The allocation of an `FSGroup` that owns the pod volumes
* The configuration of allowable supplemental groups
* Whether a container requires write access to its root file system
* The usage of volume types
* The configuration of allowable `seccomp` profiles

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not set the `openshift.io/run-level` label on any namespaces in {product-title}. This label is for use by internal {product-title} components to manage the startup of major API groups, such as the Kubernetes API server and OpenShift API server. If the `openshift.io/run-level` label is set, no SCCs are applied to pods in that namespace, causing any workloads running in that namespace to be highly privileged.
====

[id="default-sccs_{context}"]
== Default security context constraints

The cluster contains several default security context constraints (SCCs) as described in the table below. Additional SCCs might be installed when you install Operators or other components to {product-title}.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not modify the default SCCs. Customizing the default SCCs can lead to issues when some of the platform pods deploy or {product-title} is upgraded. During upgrades between some versions of {product-title}, the values of the default SCCs are reset to the default values, which discards all customizations to those SCCs.
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise,openshift-webscale[]
Instead, create new SCCs as needed.
endif::[]
====

.Default security context constraints
[cols="1,3a",options="header"]
|===
|Security context constraint |Description

|`anyuid`
| Provides all features of the `restricted` SCC, but allows users to run with any UID and any GID.

|`hostaccess`
|Allows access to all host namespaces but still requires pods to be run with a UID and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.

[WARNING]
====
This SCC allows host access to namespaces, file systems, and PIDS. It should only be used by trusted pods. Grant with caution.
====

|`hostmount-anyuid`
|Provides all the features of the `restricted` SCC, but allows host mounts and running as any UID and any GID on the system.

[WARNING]
====
This SCC allows host file system access as any UID, including UID 0. Grant with caution.
====

|`hostnetwork`
|Allows using host networking and host ports but still requires pods to be run with a UID and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.

[WARNING]
====
If additional workloads are run on control plane hosts, use caution when providing access to `hostnetwork`. A workload that runs `hostnetwork` on a control plane host is effectively root on the cluster and must be trusted accordingly.
====

|`node-exporter`
|Used for the Prometheus node exporter.

[WARNING]
====
This SCC allows host file system access as any UID, including UID 0. Grant with caution.
====

|`nonroot`
|Provides all features of the `restricted` SCC, but allows users to run with any non-root UID. The user must specify the UID or it must be specified in the manifest of the container runtime.

|`privileged`
|Allows access to all privileged and host features and the ability to run as any user, any group, any FSGroup, and with any SELinux context.

[WARNING]
====
This is the most relaxed SCC and should be used only for cluster administration. Grant with caution.
====

The `privileged` SCC allows:

* Users to run privileged pods
* Pods to mount host directories as volumes
* Pods to run as any user
* Pods to run with any MCS label
* Pods to use the host's IPC namespace
* Pods to use the host's PID namespace
* Pods to use any FSGroup
* Pods to use any supplemental group
* Pods to use any seccomp profiles
* Pods to request any capabilities

[NOTE]
====
Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification matches on the `allowPrivilegedContainer` field of an SCC.
====

|`restricted`
|Denies access to all host features and requires pods to be run with a UID, and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.  This is the most restrictive SCC and it is used by default for authenticated users.

The `restricted` SCC:

* Ensures that pods cannot run as privileged
* Ensures that pods cannot mount host directory volumes
* Requires that a pod is run as a user in a pre-allocated range of UIDs
* Requires that a pod is run with a pre-allocated MCS label
* Allows pods to use any FSGroup
* Allows pods to use any supplemental group

|===

[id="scc-settings_{context}"]
== Security context constraints settings

Security context constraints (SCCs) are composed of settings and strategies that control the security features
a pod has access to. These settings fall into three categories:

[cols="1,3",options="header"]
|===

|Category
|Description

|Controlled by a boolean
|Fields of this type default to the most restrictive value. For example,
`AllowPrivilegedContainer` is always set to `false` if unspecified.

|Controlled by an allowable set
|Fields of this type are checked against the set to ensure their value is
allowed.

|Controlled by a strategy
a|Items that have a strategy to generate a value provide:

* A mechanism to generate the value, and
* A mechanism to ensure that a specified value falls into the set of allowable
values.

|===

CRI-O has the following default list of capabilities that are allowed for each container of a pod:

* `CHOWN`
* `DAC_OVERRIDE`
* `FSETID`
* `FOWNER`
* `SETGID`
* `SETUID`
* `SETPCAP`
* `NET_BIND_SERVICE`
* `KILL`

The containers use the capabilities from this default list, but pod manifest authors can alter it by requesting additional capabilities or removing some of the default behaviors. Use the `allowedCapabilities`, `defaultAddCapabilities`, and `requiredDropCapabilities` parameters to control such requests from the pods and to dictate which capabilities can be requested, which ones must be added to each container, and which ones must be forbidden.

[id="authorization-SCC-strategies_{context}"]
== Security context constraints strategies

.RunAsUser

* `MustRunAs` - Requires a `runAsUser` to be configured. Uses the configured
`runAsUser` as the default. Validates against the configured `runAsUser`.
* `MustRunAsRange` - Requires minimum and maximum values to be defined if not
using pre-allocated values. Uses the minimum as the default. Validates against
the entire allowable range.
* `MustRunAsNonRoot` - Requires that the pod be submitted with a non-zero
`runAsUser` or have the `USER` directive defined in the image. No default
provided.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `runAsUser` to be specified.

.SELinuxContext

* `MustRunAs` - Requires `seLinuxOptions` to be configured if not using
pre-allocated values. Uses `seLinuxOptions` as the default. Validates against
`seLinuxOptions`.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `seLinuxOptions` to be
specified.

.SupplementalGroups

* `MustRunAs` - Requires at least one range to be specified if not using
pre-allocated values. Uses the minimum value of the first range as the default.
Validates against all ranges.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `supplementalGroups` to be
specified.

.FSGroup

* `MustRunAs` - Requires at least one range to be specified if not using
pre-allocated values. Uses the minimum value of the first range as the default.
Validates against the first ID in the first range.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `fsGroup` ID to be specified.


[id="authorization-controlling-volumes_{context}"]
== Controlling volumes

The usage of specific volume types can be controlled by setting the `volumes`
field of the SCC. The allowable values of this field correspond to the volume
sources that are defined when creating a volume:

* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#awselasticblockstore[`awsElasticBlockStore`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#azuredisk[`azureDisk`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#azurefile[`azureFile`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs[`cephFS`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cinder[`cinder`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap[`configMap`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi[`downwardAPI`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[`emptyDir`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#fc[`fc`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#flexvolume[`flexVolume`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#flocker[`flocker`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gcepersistentdisk[`gcePersistentDisk`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gitrepo[`gitRepo`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#glusterfs[`glusterfs`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath[`hostPath`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#iscsi[`iscsi`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#nfs[`nfs`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#persistentvolumeclaim[`persistentVolumeClaim`]
* `photonPersistentDisk`
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#portworxvolume[`portworxVolume`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#projected[`projected`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#quobyte[`quobyte`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd[`rbd`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#scaleio[`scaleIO`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret[`secret`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#storageos[`storageos`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#vspherevolume[`vsphereVolume`]
* *** (A special value to allow the use of all volume types.)
* `none` (A special value to disallow the use of all volumes types. Exists only for backwards compatibility.)

The recommended minimum set of allowed volumes for new SCCs are `configMap`,
`downwardAPI`, `emptyDir`, `persistentVolumeClaim`, `secret`, and `projected`.

[NOTE]
====
This list of allowable volume types is not exhaustive because new types are
added with each release of {product-title}.
====

[NOTE]
====
For backwards compatibility, the usage of `allowHostDirVolumePlugin` overrides
settings in the `volumes` field. For example, if `allowHostDirVolumePlugin`
is set to false but allowed in the `volumes` field, then the `hostPath`
value will be removed from `volumes`.
====


[id="admission_{context}"]
== Admission control
_Admission control_ with SCCs allows for control over the creation of resources
based on the capabilities granted to a user.

In terms of the SCCs, this means that an admission controller can inspect the
user information made available in the context to retrieve an appropriate set of
SCCs. Doing so ensures the pod is authorized to make requests about its
operating environment or to generate a set of constraints to apply to the pod.

The set of SCCs that admission uses to authorize a pod are determined by the
user identity and groups that the user belongs to. Additionally, if the pod
specifies a service account, the set of allowable SCCs includes any constraints
accessible to the service account.

Admission uses the following approach to create the final security context for
the pod:

. Retrieve all SCCs available for use.
. Generate field values for security context settings that were not specified
on the request.
. Validate the final settings against the available constraints.

If a matching set of constraints is found, then the pod is accepted. If the
request cannot be matched to an SCC, the pod is rejected.

A pod must validate every field against the SCC. The following are examples for
just two of the fields that must be validated:

[NOTE]
====
These examples are in the context of a strategy using the pre-allocated values.
====

*An FSGroup SCC strategy of `MustRunAs`*

If the pod defines a `fsGroup` ID, then that ID must equal the default
`fsGroup` ID. Otherwise, the pod is not validated by that SCC and the next SCC
is evaluated.

If the `SecurityContextConstraints.fsGroup` field has value `RunAsAny`
and the pod specification omits the `Pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`,
then this field is considered valid. Note that it is possible that during
validation, other SCC settings will reject other pod fields and thus cause the
pod to fail.

*A `SupplementalGroups` SCC strategy of `MustRunAs`*

If the pod specification defines one or more `supplementalGroups` IDs, then
the pod's IDs must equal one of the IDs in the namespace's
`openshift.io/sa.scc.supplemental-groups` annotation. Otherwise, the pod is not
validated by that SCC and the next SCC is evaluated.

If the `SecurityContextConstraints.supplementalGroups` field has value `RunAsAny`
and the pod specification omits the `Pod.spec.securityContext.supplementalGroups`,
then this field is considered valid. Note that it is possible that during
validation, other SCC settings will reject other pod fields and thus cause the
pod to fail.

[id="scc-prioritization_{context}"]
== Security context constraints prioritization

Security context constraints (SCCs) have a priority field that affects the ordering when attempting to
validate a request by the admission controller. A higher priority
SCC is moved to the front of the set when sorting. When the complete set
of available SCCs are determined they are ordered by:

. Highest priority first, nil is considered a 0 priority
. If priorities are equal, the SCCs will be sorted from most restrictive to least restrictive
. If both priorities and restrictions are equal the SCCs will be sorted by name

By default, the `anyuid` SCC granted to cluster administrators is given priority
in their SCC set. This allows cluster administrators to run pods as any
user by without specifying a `RunAsUser` on the pod's `SecurityContext`. The
administrator may still specify a `RunAsUser` if they wish.

Commit message:

BZ-2025586:Documentation update to reflect changes for capabilities getting dropped when using keyword  in the container's securityContext

modules/security-context-constraints-about.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.adoc

[id="security-context-constraints-about_{context}"]
= About security context constraints

Similar to the way that RBAC resources control user access, administrators can use _security context constraints_ (SCCs) to control permissions for pods. These permissions include actions that a pod can perform and what resources it can access. You can use SCCs to define a set of conditions that a pod must run with to be accepted into the system.

Security context constraints allow an administrator to control:

* Whether a pod can run privileged containers
* The capabilities that a container can request
* The use of host directories as volumes
* The SELinux context of the container
* The container user ID
* The use of host namespaces and networking
* The allocation of an `FSGroup` that owns the pod volumes
* The configuration of allowable supplemental groups
* Whether a container requires write access to its root file system
* The usage of volume types
* The configuration of allowable `seccomp` profiles

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not set the `openshift.io/run-level` label on any namespaces in {product-title}. This label is for use by internal {product-title} components to manage the startup of major API groups, such as the Kubernetes API server and OpenShift API server. If the `openshift.io/run-level` label is set, no SCCs are applied to pods in that namespace, causing any workloads running in that namespace to be highly privileged.
====

[id="default-sccs_{context}"]
== Default security context constraints

The cluster contains several default security context constraints (SCCs) as described in the table below. Additional SCCs might be installed when you install Operators or other components to {product-title}.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not modify the default SCCs. Customizing the default SCCs can lead to issues when some of the platform pods deploy or {product-title} is upgraded. During upgrades between some versions of {product-title}, the values of the default SCCs are reset to the default values, which discards all customizations to those SCCs.
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise,openshift-webscale[]
Instead, create new SCCs as needed.
endif::[]
====

.Default security context constraints
[cols="1,3a",options="header"]
|===
|Security context constraint |Description

|`anyuid`
| Provides all features of the `restricted` SCC, but allows users to run with any UID and any GID.

|`hostaccess`
|Allows access to all host namespaces but still requires pods to be run with a UID and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.

[WARNING]
====
This SCC allows host access to namespaces, file systems, and PIDS. It should only be used by trusted pods. Grant with caution.
====

|`hostmount-anyuid`
|Provides all the features of the `restricted` SCC, but allows host mounts and running as any UID and any GID on the system.

[WARNING]
====
This SCC allows host file system access as any UID, including UID 0. Grant with caution.
====

|`hostnetwork`
|Allows using host networking and host ports but still requires pods to be run with a UID and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.

[WARNING]
====
If additional workloads are run on control plane hosts, use caution when providing access to `hostnetwork`. A workload that runs `hostnetwork` on a control plane host is effectively root on the cluster and must be trusted accordingly.
====

|`node-exporter`
|Used for the Prometheus node exporter.

[WARNING]
====
This SCC allows host file system access as any UID, including UID 0. Grant with caution.
====

|`nonroot`
|Provides all features of the `restricted` SCC, but allows users to run with any non-root UID. The user must specify the UID or it must be specified in the manifest of the container runtime.

|`privileged`
|Allows access to all privileged and host features and the ability to run as any user, any group, any FSGroup, and with any SELinux context.

[WARNING]
====
This is the most relaxed SCC and should be used only for cluster administration. Grant with caution.
====

The `privileged` SCC allows:

* Users to run privileged pods
* Pods to mount host directories as volumes
* Pods to run as any user
* Pods to run with any MCS label
* Pods to use the host's IPC namespace
* Pods to use the host's PID namespace
* Pods to use any FSGroup
* Pods to use any supplemental group
* Pods to use any seccomp profiles
* Pods to request any capabilities

[NOTE]
====
Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification does not select the `privileged` SCC. Setting `privileged: true` in the pod specification matches on the `allowPrivilegedContainer` field of an SCC.
====

|`restricted`
|Denies access to all host features and requires pods to be run with a UID, and SELinux context that are allocated to the namespace.  This is the most restrictive SCC and it is used by default for authenticated users.

The `restricted` SCC:

* Ensures that pods cannot run as privileged
* Ensures that pods cannot mount host directory volumes
* Requires that a pod is run as a user in a pre-allocated range of UIDs
* Requires that a pod is run with a pre-allocated MCS label
* Allows pods to use any FSGroup
* Allows pods to use any supplemental group

|===

[id="scc-settings_{context}"]
== Security context constraints settings

Security context constraints (SCCs) are composed of settings and strategies that control the security features
a pod has access to. These settings fall into three categories:

[cols="1,3",options="header"]
|===

|Category
|Description

|Controlled by a boolean
|Fields of this type default to the most restrictive value. For example,
`AllowPrivilegedContainer` is always set to `false` if unspecified.

|Controlled by an allowable set
|Fields of this type are checked against the set to ensure their value is
allowed.

|Controlled by a strategy
a|Items that have a strategy to generate a value provide:

* A mechanism to generate the value, and
* A mechanism to ensure that a specified value falls into the set of allowable
values.

|===

CRI-O has the following default list of capabilities that are allowed for each container of a pod:

* `CHOWN`
* `DAC_OVERRIDE`
* `FSETID`
* `FOWNER`
* `SETGID`
* `SETUID`
* `SETPCAP`
* `NET_BIND_SERVICE`
* `KILL`

The containers use the capabilities from this default list, but pod manifest authors can alter the list by requesting additional capabilities or removing some of the default behaviors. Use the `allowedCapabilities`, `defaultAddCapabilities`, and `requiredDropCapabilities` parameters to control such requests from the pods and to specify which capabilities can be requested, which ones must be added to each container, and which ones must be forbidden, or dropped, from each container.

[NOTE]
====
You can drop all capabilites from containers by setting the `requiredDropCapabilities` parameter to `ALL`. 
====

[id="authorization-SCC-strategies_{context}"]
== Security context constraints strategies

.RunAsUser

* `MustRunAs` - Requires a `runAsUser` to be configured. Uses the configured
`runAsUser` as the default. Validates against the configured `runAsUser`.
* `MustRunAsRange` - Requires minimum and maximum values to be defined if not
using pre-allocated values. Uses the minimum as the default. Validates against
the entire allowable range.
* `MustRunAsNonRoot` - Requires that the pod be submitted with a non-zero
`runAsUser` or have the `USER` directive defined in the image. No default
provided.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `runAsUser` to be specified.

.SELinuxContext

* `MustRunAs` - Requires `seLinuxOptions` to be configured if not using
pre-allocated values. Uses `seLinuxOptions` as the default. Validates against
`seLinuxOptions`.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `seLinuxOptions` to be
specified.

.SupplementalGroups

* `MustRunAs` - Requires at least one range to be specified if not using
pre-allocated values. Uses the minimum value of the first range as the default.
Validates against all ranges.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `supplementalGroups` to be
specified.

.FSGroup

* `MustRunAs` - Requires at least one range to be specified if not using
pre-allocated values. Uses the minimum value of the first range as the default.
Validates against the first ID in the first range.
* `RunAsAny` - No default provided. Allows any `fsGroup` ID to be specified.


[id="authorization-controlling-volumes_{context}"]
== Controlling volumes

The usage of specific volume types can be controlled by setting the `volumes`
field of the SCC. The allowable values of this field correspond to the volume
sources that are defined when creating a volume:

* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#awselasticblockstore[`awsElasticBlockStore`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#azuredisk[`azureDisk`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#azurefile[`azureFile`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cephfs[`cephFS`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cinder[`cinder`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap[`configMap`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi[`downwardAPI`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[`emptyDir`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#fc[`fc`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#flexvolume[`flexVolume`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#flocker[`flocker`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gcepersistentdisk[`gcePersistentDisk`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gitrepo[`gitRepo`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#glusterfs[`glusterfs`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath[`hostPath`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#iscsi[`iscsi`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#nfs[`nfs`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#persistentvolumeclaim[`persistentVolumeClaim`]
* `photonPersistentDisk`
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#portworxvolume[`portworxVolume`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#projected[`projected`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#quobyte[`quobyte`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd[`rbd`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#scaleio[`scaleIO`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret[`secret`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#storageos[`storageos`]
* link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#vspherevolume[`vsphereVolume`]
* *** (A special value to allow the use of all volume types.)
* `none` (A special value to disallow the use of all volumes types. Exists only for backwards compatibility.)

The recommended minimum set of allowed volumes for new SCCs are `configMap`,
`downwardAPI`, `emptyDir`, `persistentVolumeClaim`, `secret`, and `projected`.

[NOTE]
====
This list of allowable volume types is not exhaustive because new types are
added with each release of {product-title}.
====

[NOTE]
====
For backwards compatibility, the usage of `allowHostDirVolumePlugin` overrides
settings in the `volumes` field. For example, if `allowHostDirVolumePlugin`
is set to false but allowed in the `volumes` field, then the `hostPath`
value will be removed from `volumes`.
====


[id="admission_{context}"]
== Admission control
_Admission control_ with SCCs allows for control over the creation of resources
based on the capabilities granted to a user.

In terms of the SCCs, this means that an admission controller can inspect the
user information made available in the context to retrieve an appropriate set of
SCCs. Doing so ensures the pod is authorized to make requests about its
operating environment or to generate a set of constraints to apply to the pod.

The set of SCCs that admission uses to authorize a pod are determined by the
user identity and groups that the user belongs to. Additionally, if the pod
specifies a service account, the set of allowable SCCs includes any constraints
accessible to the service account.

Admission uses the following approach to create the final security context for
the pod:

. Retrieve all SCCs available for use.
. Generate field values for security context settings that were not specified
on the request.
. Validate the final settings against the available constraints.

If a matching set of constraints is found, then the pod is accepted. If the
request cannot be matched to an SCC, the pod is rejected.

A pod must validate every field against the SCC. The following are examples for
just two of the fields that must be validated:

[NOTE]
====
These examples are in the context of a strategy using the pre-allocated values.
====

*An FSGroup SCC strategy of `MustRunAs`*

If the pod defines a `fsGroup` ID, then that ID must equal the default
`fsGroup` ID. Otherwise, the pod is not validated by that SCC and the next SCC
is evaluated.

If the `SecurityContextConstraints.fsGroup` field has value `RunAsAny`
and the pod specification omits the `Pod.spec.securityContext.fsGroup`,
then this field is considered valid. Note that it is possible that during
validation, other SCC settings will reject other pod fields and thus cause the
pod to fail.

*A `SupplementalGroups` SCC strategy of `MustRunAs`*

If the pod specification defines one or more `supplementalGroups` IDs, then
the pod's IDs must equal one of the IDs in the namespace's
`openshift.io/sa.scc.supplemental-groups` annotation. Otherwise, the pod is not
validated by that SCC and the next SCC is evaluated.

If the `SecurityContextConstraints.supplementalGroups` field has value `RunAsAny`
and the pod specification omits the `Pod.spec.securityContext.supplementalGroups`,
then this field is considered valid. Note that it is possible that during
validation, other SCC settings will reject other pod fields and thus cause the
pod to fail.

[id="scc-prioritization_{context}"]
== Security context constraints prioritization

Security context constraints (SCCs) have a priority field that affects the ordering when attempting to
validate a request by the admission controller. A higher priority
SCC is moved to the front of the set when sorting. When the complete set
of available SCCs are determined they are ordered by:

. Highest priority first, nil is considered a 0 priority
. If priorities are equal, the SCCs will be sorted from most restrictive to least restrictive
. If both priorities and restrictions are equal the SCCs will be sorted by name

By default, the `anyuid` SCC granted to cluster administrators is given priority
in their SCC set. This allows cluster administrators to run pods as any
user by without specifying a `RunAsUser` on the pod's `SecurityContext`. The
administrator may still specify a `RunAsUser` if they wish.
