modules/understanding-agent-install.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_with_agent_bases_installer/preparing-to-install-with-agent-based-installer.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="understanding-agent-install_{context}"]
= Understanding Agent-based Installer
As a {product-title} user, you can leverage all the advantages of the Assisted Installer hosted service in disconnected environments.

The Agent installation comprises a bootable ISO that contains the Assisted discovery agent and the Assisted Service; both are required to perform the first cluster installation.

The `openshift-install agent create image` subcommand generates an ephemeral ISO based on the inputs that you provide. You can choose to provide inputs through the following manifests:

Preferred:

* `install-config.yaml`
* `agent-config.yaml`

or

Optional: ZTP manifests

* `cluster-deployment.yaml`
* `agent-cluster-install.yaml`
* `pull-secret.yaml`
* `infraenv.yaml`
* `cluster-image-set.yaml`
* `nmstateconfig.yaml`
* `registries.conf`
* `ca-bundle.crt`

[id="agent-based-installer-workflow"]
== Agent-based Installer workflow
One of the nodes runs the Assisted Service at the start of the boot process and eventually becomes the bootstrap host. This node is called **node 0**.
The Assisted Service ensures that all the hosts meet the requirements and triggers an {product-title} cluster deployement. All the nodes have the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image written to the disk. The non-bootstrap nodes reboot and initiate a cluster deployment.
When the nodes are rebooted, **node 0** reboots and joins the cluster. The bootstrapping is complete and the cluster is deployed.

.Node lifecycle workflow
image::agent-based-installer-workflow.png[Agent-based installer workflow]

You can install a disconnected {product-title} cluster through the `openshift-install agent create image` subcommand for the following topologies:

* **A single-node {product-title} cluster (SNO)**: A node that is both a master and worker.
* **A three-node {product-title} cluster** : A compact cluster that has three master nodes that are also worker nodes.
* **Highly available {product-title} cluster (HA)**: Three master nodes with any number of worker nodes.

== Recommended resources for topologies

Recommended cluster resources for the following topologies:

.Recommended cluster resources
[options="header"]
|====
|Topology|Number of master nodes|Number of worker nodes|vCPU|Memory|Storage
|Single-node cluster|1|0|8 vCPU cores|16GB of RAM| 120GB
|Compact cluster|3|0|8 vCPU cores|16GB of RAM|120GB
|HA cluster|3 and above|2 and above |8 vCPU cores|16GB of RAM|120GB
|====


The following platforms are supported:

* `none`
* `baremetal`
* `vSphere`

Commit message:

Agent installer: avoid using 'node 0' terminology
Within the team we refer to the host running the assisted service as
'Node 0', but the only user-facing reference to it is the 'rendezvousIP'
field in the agent-config. For documentation purposes it's probably
better to refer to this as the 'rendezvous host' to link the concepts
together.

modules/understanding-agent-install.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_with_agent_bases_installer/preparing-to-install-with-agent-based-installer.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="understanding-agent-install_{context}"]
= Understanding Agent-based Installer
As a {product-title} user, you can leverage all the advantages of the Assisted Installer hosted service in disconnected environments.

The Agent installation comprises a bootable ISO that contains the Assisted discovery agent and the Assisted Service; both are required to perform the first cluster installation.

The `openshift-install agent create image` subcommand generates an ephemeral ISO based on the inputs that you provide. You can choose to provide inputs through the following manifests:

Preferred:

* `install-config.yaml`
* `agent-config.yaml`

or

Optional: ZTP manifests

* `cluster-deployment.yaml`
* `agent-cluster-install.yaml`
* `pull-secret.yaml`
* `infraenv.yaml`
* `cluster-image-set.yaml`
* `nmstateconfig.yaml`
* `registries.conf`
* `ca-bundle.crt`

[id="agent-based-installer-workflow"]
== Agent-based Installer workflow
One of the control plane hosts runs the Assisted Service at the start of the boot process and eventually becomes the bootstrap host. This node is called the rendezvous host.
The Assisted Service ensures that all the hosts meet the requirements and triggers an {product-title} cluster deployement. All the nodes have the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image written to the disk. The non-bootstrap nodes reboot and initiate a cluster deployment.
Once the nodes are rebooted, the rendezvous host reboots and joins the cluster. The bootstrapping is complete and the cluster is deployed.

.Node lifecycle workflow
image::agent-based-installer-workflow.png[Agent-based installer workflow]

You can install a disconnected {product-title} cluster through the `openshift-install agent create image` subcommand for the following topologies:

* **A single-node {product-title} cluster (SNO)**: A node that is both a master and worker.
* **A three-node {product-title} cluster** : A compact cluster that has three master nodes that are also worker nodes.
* **Highly available {product-title} cluster (HA)**: Three master nodes with any number of worker nodes.

== Recommended resources for topologies

Recommended cluster resources for the following topologies:

.Recommended cluster resources
[options="header"]
|====
|Topology|Number of master nodes|Number of worker nodes|vCPU|Memory|Storage
|Single-node cluster|1|0|8 vCPU cores|16GB of RAM| 120GB
|Compact cluster|3|0|8 vCPU cores|16GB of RAM|120GB
|HA cluster|3 and above|2 and above |8 vCPU cores|16GB of RAM|120GB
|====


The following platforms are supported:

* `none`
* `baremetal`
* `vSphere`
