modules/understanding-telemetry-and-insights-operator-data-flow.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/remote_health_monitoring/about-remote-health-monitoring.adoc

[id="understanding-telemetry-and-insights-operator-data-flow_{context}"]
= Understanding Telemetry and Insights Operator data flow

The Telemeter Client collects selected time series data from the Prometheus API. The time series data is uploaded to api.openshift.com every four minutes and thirty seconds for processing.

The Insights Operator gathers selected data from the Kubernetes API and the Prometheus API into an archive. The archive is uploaded to link:https://cloud.redhat.com[cloud.redhat.com] every two hours for processing. The Insights Operator also downloads the latest Insights analysis from link:https://cloud.redhat.com[cloud.redhat.com]. This is used to populate the *Insights status* pop-up that is included in the *Overview* page in the {product-title} web console.

All of the communication with Red Hat occurs over encrypted channels by using Transport Layer Security (TLS) and mutual certificate authentication. All of the data is encrypted in transit and at rest.

Access to the systems that handle customer data is controlled through multi-factor authentication and strict authorization controls. Access is granted on a need-to-know basis and is limited to required operations.

.Telemetry and Insights Operator data flow
image:telmetry-and-insights-operator-data-flow.svg[Telemetry and Insights Operator data flow]

Commit message:

CCXDEV-5371 Cloud migration link fixes

modules/understanding-telemetry-and-insights-operator-data-flow.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/remote_health_monitoring/about-remote-health-monitoring.adoc

[id="understanding-telemetry-and-insights-operator-data-flow_{context}"]
= Understanding Telemetry and Insights Operator data flow

The Telemeter Client collects selected time series data from the Prometheus API. The time series data is uploaded to api.openshift.com every four minutes and thirty seconds for processing.

The Insights Operator gathers selected data from the Kubernetes API and the Prometheus API into an archive. The archive is uploaded to {link-cloud-redhat-com} every two hours for processing. The Insights Operator also downloads the latest Insights analysis from {link-cloud-redhat-com}. This is used to populate the *Insights status* pop-up that is included in the *Overview* page in the {product-title} web console.

All of the communication with Red Hat occurs over encrypted channels by using Transport Layer Security (TLS) and mutual certificate authentication. All of the data is encrypted in transit and at rest.

Access to the systems that handle customer data is controlled through multi-factor authentication and strict authorization controls. Access is granted on a need-to-know basis and is limited to required operations.

.Telemetry and Insights Operator data flow
image:telmetry-and-insights-operator-data-flow.svg[Telemetry and Insights Operator data flow]
