modules/update-upgrading-cli.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/updating-cluster-cli.adoc
// * updating/updating-cluster-rhel-compute.adoc

[id="update-upgrading-cli_{context}"]
= Updating a cluster by using the CLI

If updates are available, you can update your cluster by using the
OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

You can find information about available {product-title} advisories and updates
link:https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/290/ver=4.1/rhel---7/4.1.0/x86_64/product-errata[in the errata section]
of the Customer Portal.

.Prerequisites

* Install the version of the OpenShift Command-line Interface (CLI), commonly
known as `oc`, that matches the version for your updated version.
* Log in to the cluster as user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Install the `jq` package.

.Procedure

. Ensure that your cluster is available:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion

NAME      VERSION   AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   SINCE   STATUS
version   4.2.0     True        False         158m    Cluster version is 4.2.0
----

. Review the current update channel information and confirm that your channel
is set to `stable-4.2`:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].spec"

{
  "channel": "stable-4.2",
  "clusterID": "990f7ab8-109b-4c95-8480-2bd1deec55ff",
  "upstream": "https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph"
}
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
For production clusters, you must subscribe to a `stable-*` channel.
====

. View the available updates and note the version number of the update that
you want to apply:
+
----
$ oc adm upgrade

Cluster version is 4.1.0

Updates:

VERSION IMAGE
4.1.2   quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:9c5f0df8b192a0d7b46cd5f6a4da2289c155fd5302dec7954f8f06c878160b8b
----

. Apply an update:
** To update to the latest version:
+
----
$ oc adm upgrade --to-latest=true <1>
----

** To update to a specific version:
+
----
$ oc adm upgrade --to=<version> <1>
----
<1> `<version>` is the update version that you obtained from the output of the
previous command.

. Review the status of the Cluster Version Operator:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].spec"

{
  "channel": "stable-4.2",
  "clusterID": "990f7ab8-109b-4c95-8480-2bd1deec55ff",
  "desiredUpdate": {
    "force": false,
    "image": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:9c5f0df8b192a0d7b46cd5f6a4da2289c155fd5302dec7954f8f06c878160b8b",
    "version": "4.2.1" <1>
  },
  "upstream": "https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph"
}
----
<1> If the `version` number in the `desiredUpdate` stanza matches the value that
you specified, the update is in progress.

. Review the cluster version status history to monitor the status of the update.
It might take some time for all the objects to finish updating.
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].status.history"

[
  {
    "completionTime": null,
    "image": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:9c5f0df8b192a0d7b46cd5f6a4da2289c155fd5302dec7954f8f06c878160b8b",
    "startedTime": "2019-06-19T20:30:50Z",
    "state": "Partial",
    "verified": true,
    "version": "4.1.2"
  },
  {
    "completionTime": "2019-06-19T20:30:50Z",
    "image": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:b8307ac0f3ec4ac86c3f3b52846425205022da52c16f56ec31cbe428501001d6",
    "startedTime": "2019-06-19T17:38:10Z",
    "state": "Completed",
    "verified": false,
    "version": "4.1.0"
  }
]
----
+
The history contains a list of the most recent versions applied to the cluster.
This value is updated when the CVO applies an update. The list is ordered by
date, where the newest update is first in the list. Updates in the history have
state `Completed` if the rollout completed and `Partial` if the update failed
or did not complete.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If an upgrade fails, the Operator stops and reports the status of the failing
component. Rolling your cluster back to a previous version is not supported.
If your upgrade fails, contact Red Hat support.
====

. After the update completes, you can confirm that the cluster version has
updated to the new version:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion

NAME      VERSION     AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   SINCE     STATUS
version   4.1.2       True        False         2m        Cluster version is 4.1.2
----

Commit message:

Bug 1766998, added information about the watch command

modules/update-upgrading-cli.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/updating-cluster-cli.adoc
// * updating/updating-cluster-rhel-compute.adoc

[id="update-upgrading-cli_{context}"]
= Updating a cluster by using the CLI

If updates are available, you can update your cluster by using the
OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

You can find information about available {product-title} advisories and updates
link:https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/290/ver=4.1/rhel---7/4.1.0/x86_64/product-errata[in the errata section]
of the Customer Portal.

.Prerequisites

* Install the version of the OpenShift Command-line Interface (CLI), commonly
known as `oc`, that matches the version for your updated version.
* Log in to the cluster as user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Install the `jq` package.

.Procedure

. Ensure that your cluster is available:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion

NAME      VERSION   AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   SINCE   STATUS
version   4.2.0     True        False         158m    Cluster version is 4.2.0
----

. Review the current update channel information and confirm that your channel
is set to `stable-4.2`:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].spec"

{
  "channel": "stable-4.2",
  "clusterID": "990f7ab8-109b-4c95-8480-2bd1deec55ff",
  "upstream": "https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph"
}
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
For production clusters, you must subscribe to a `stable-*` channel.
====

. View the available updates and note the version number of the update that
you want to apply:
+
----
$ oc adm upgrade

Cluster version is 4.1.0

Updates:

VERSION IMAGE
4.1.2   quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:9c5f0df8b192a0d7b46cd5f6a4da2289c155fd5302dec7954f8f06c878160b8b
----

. Apply an update:
** To update to the latest version:
+
----
$ oc adm upgrade --to-latest=true <1>
----

** To update to a specific version:
+
----
$ oc adm upgrade --to=<version> <1>
----
<1> `<version>` is the update version that you obtained from the output of the
previous command.

. Review the status of the Cluster Version Operator:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].spec"

{
  "channel": "stable-4.2",
  "clusterID": "990f7ab8-109b-4c95-8480-2bd1deec55ff",
  "desiredUpdate": {
    "force": false,
    "image": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:9c5f0df8b192a0d7b46cd5f6a4da2289c155fd5302dec7954f8f06c878160b8b",
    "version": "4.2.1" <1>
  },
  "upstream": "https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph"
}
----
<1> If the `version` number in the `desiredUpdate` stanza matches the value that
you specified, the update is in progress.

. Review the cluster version status history to monitor the status of the update.
It might take some time for all the objects to finish updating.
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].status.history"

[
  {
    "completionTime": null,
    "image": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:9c5f0df8b192a0d7b46cd5f6a4da2289c155fd5302dec7954f8f06c878160b8b",
    "startedTime": "2019-06-19T20:30:50Z",
    "state": "Partial",
    "verified": true,
    "version": "4.1.2"
  },
  {
    "completionTime": "2019-06-19T20:30:50Z",
    "image": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:b8307ac0f3ec4ac86c3f3b52846425205022da52c16f56ec31cbe428501001d6",
    "startedTime": "2019-06-19T17:38:10Z",
    "state": "Completed",
    "verified": false,
    "version": "4.1.0"
  }
]
----
+
The history contains a list of the most recent versions applied to the cluster.
This value is updated when the CVO applies an update. The list is ordered by
date, where the newest update is first in the list. Updates in the history have
state `Completed` if the rollout completed and `Partial` if the update failed
or did not complete.
+
You can use the `watch` command to follow the status:
+
----
$ watch -n 5 './oc get clusterversion -o json|jq ".items[0].status.history"'
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If an upgrade fails, the Operator stops and reports the status of the failing
component. Rolling your cluster back to a previous version is not supported.
If your upgrade fails, contact Red Hat support.
====

. After the update completes, you can confirm that the cluster version has
updated to the new version:
+
----
$ oc get clusterversion

NAME      VERSION     AVAILABLE   PROGRESSING   SINCE     STATUS
version   4.1.2       True        False         2m        Cluster version is 4.1.2
----
