modules/update-preparing-evaluate-apirequestcount.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/updating-cluster-prepare.adoc

[id="update-preparing-evaluate-apirequestcount_{context}"]
= Using APIRequestCount to identify uses of removed APIs

You can use the `APIRequestCount` API to track API requests and review whether any of them are using one of the removed APIs.

.Prerequisites

* You must have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

* Run the following command and examine the `REMOVEDINRELEASE` column of the output to identify the removed APIs that are currently in use:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get apirequestcounts
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                        REMOVEDINRELEASE   REQUESTSINCURRENTHOUR   REQUESTSINLAST24H
cloudcredentials.v1.operator.openshift.io                      32                      111
ingresses.v1.networking.k8s.io                                 28                      110
ingresses.v1beta1.extensions                1.22               16                      66
ingresses.v1beta1.networking.k8s.io         1.22               0                       1
installplans.v1alpha1.operators.coreos.com                     93                      167
...
----
+
You can also use `-o jsonpath` to filter the results:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get apirequestcounts -o jsonpath='{range .items[?(@.status.removedInRelease!="")]}{.status.removedInRelease}{"\t"}{.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
1.22    certificatesigningrequests.v1beta1.certificates.k8s.io
1.22    ingresses.v1beta1.extensions
1.22    ingresses.v1beta1.networking.k8s.io
----

Commit message:

Noting ApiRequestCount hits to ignore

modules/update-preparing-evaluate-apirequestcount.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * updating/updating-cluster-prepare.adoc

[id="update-preparing-evaluate-apirequestcount_{context}"]
= Using APIRequestCount to identify uses of removed APIs

You can use the `APIRequestCount` API to track API requests and review whether any of them are using one of the removed APIs.

.Prerequisites

* You must have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

* Run the following command and examine the `REMOVEDINRELEASE` column of the output to identify the removed APIs that are currently in use:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get apirequestcounts
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                        REMOVEDINRELEASE   REQUESTSINCURRENTHOUR   REQUESTSINLAST24H
cloudcredentials.v1.operator.openshift.io                      32                      111
ingresses.v1.networking.k8s.io                                 28                      110
ingresses.v1beta1.extensions                1.22               16                      66
ingresses.v1beta1.networking.k8s.io         1.22               0                       1
installplans.v1alpha1.operators.coreos.com                     93                      167
...
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can safely ignore the following entries that appear in the results:

* `system:serviceaccount:kube-system:generic-garbage-collector` appears in the results because it walks through all registered APIs searching for resources to remove.
* `system:kube-controller-manager` appears in the results because it walks through all resources to count them while enforcing quotas.
====
+
You can also use `-o jsonpath` to filter the results:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get apirequestcounts -o jsonpath='{range .items[?(@.status.removedInRelease!="")]}{.status.removedInRelease}{"\t"}{.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}'
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
1.22    certificatesigningrequests.v1beta1.certificates.k8s.io
1.22    ingresses.v1beta1.extensions
1.22    ingresses.v1beta1.networking.k8s.io
----
