modules/update-openshift-security-context-constraints.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * upgrade/upgrade-from-44.adoc
:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="update-openshift-security-context-constraints_{context}"]
= Updating OpenShift security context constraints

[role="_abstract"]
Depending on the version of {product-title} you are upgrading to, you must update certain {ocp} security context constraints (SCCs).

[WARNING]
====
Run the commands in this section only if you are using {product-title} with {ocp}. Otherwise, skip the instructions in this section.
====

.Procedure

* {product-title} 3.0.57.2 introduces changes to the SCCs. If you are upgrading to {product-title} 3.0.57.2 or higher, you must patch the SCCs by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch --type merge scc scanner -p '{"priority":0}'
----

* {product-title} 3.64.0 renames the SCCs. If you are upgrading to {product-title} 3.64.0 or higher, you must delete and reapply the SCCs:

.. Run the following commands to update Central:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: stackrox-central
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-central is the security constraint for the central server
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowedCapabilities: []
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
defaultAddCapabilities: []
fsGroup:
  type: MustRunAs
  ranges:
    - max: 4000
      min: 4000
priority: 0
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
requiredDropCapabilities: []
runAsUser:
  type: MustRunAs
  uid: 4000
seLinuxContext:
  type: MustRunAs
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:central
volumes:
  - '*'
EOF
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete scc central
----

.. Run the following commands to update Scanner:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: stackrox-scanner
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-scanner is the security constraint for the Scanner container
priority: 0
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:scanner
volumes:
  - '*'
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowedCapabilities: []
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
defaultAddCapabilities: []
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
readOnlyRootFilesystem: false
requiredDropCapabilities: []
EOF
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete scc scanner
----

.. Run the following commands to update Secured Cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
  name: stackrox-admission-control
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
    auto-upgrade.stackrox.io/component: "sensor"
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-admission-control is the security constraint for the admission controller
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:admission-control
priority: 0
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
groups: []
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
allowedCapabilities: []
defaultAddCapabilities: []
requiredDropCapabilities: []
volumes:
  - configMap
  - downwardAPI
  - emptyDir
  - secret
---
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
  name: stackrox-collector
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
    auto-upgrade.stackrox.io/component: "sensor"
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: This SCC is based on privileged, hostaccess, and hostmount-anyuid
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:collector
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: true
allowPrivilegedContainer: true
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
groups: []
priority: 0
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: true
allowedCapabilities: []
defaultAddCapabilities: []
requiredDropCapabilities: []
volumes:
  - configMap
  - downwardAPI
  - emptyDir
  - hostPath
  - secret
---
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
  name: stackrox-sensor
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
    auto-upgrade.stackrox.io/component: "sensor"
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-sensor is the security constraint for the sensor
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:sensor
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:sensor-upgrader
priority: 0
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
groups: []
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: true
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
allowedCapabilities: []
defaultAddCapabilities: []
requiredDropCapabilities: []
volumes:
  - configMap
  - downwardAPI
  - emptyDir
  - secret
EOF
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete scc admission-control collector sensor
----

Commit message:

Update upgrade guide for relevancy

modules/update-openshift-security-context-constraints.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * upgrade/upgrade-manually.adoc
:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="update-openshift-security-context-constraints_{context}"]
= Updating OpenShift security context constraints

[role="_abstract"]
Depending on the version of {product-title} you are upgrading to, you must update certain {ocp} security context constraints (SCCs).

[WARNING]
====
Run the commands in this section only if you are using {product-title} with {ocp}. Otherwise, skip the instructions in this section.
====

.Procedure

* {product-title} 3.64.0 renames the SCCs. If you are upgrading from a version below {product-title} 3.64.0, you must delete and reapply the SCCs, otherwise, skip this step:

.. Run the following commands to update Central:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: stackrox-central
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-central is the security constraint for the central server
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowedCapabilities: []
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
defaultAddCapabilities: []
fsGroup:
  type: MustRunAs
  ranges:
    - max: 4000
      min: 4000
priority: 0
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
requiredDropCapabilities: []
runAsUser:
  type: MustRunAs
  uid: 4000
seLinuxContext:
  type: MustRunAs
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:central
volumes:
  - '*'
EOF
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete scc central
----

.. Run the following commands to update Scanner:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: stackrox-scanner
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-scanner is the security constraint for the Scanner container
priority: 0
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:scanner
volumes:
  - '*'
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowedCapabilities: []
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
defaultAddCapabilities: []
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
readOnlyRootFilesystem: false
requiredDropCapabilities: []
EOF
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete scc scanner
----

.. Run the following commands on each OpenShift Secured Cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
  name: stackrox-admission-control
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
    auto-upgrade.stackrox.io/component: "sensor"
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-admission-control is the security constraint for the admission controller
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:admission-control
priority: 0
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
groups: []
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
allowedCapabilities: []
defaultAddCapabilities: []
requiredDropCapabilities: []
volumes:
  - configMap
  - downwardAPI
  - emptyDir
  - secret
---
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
  name: stackrox-collector
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
    auto-upgrade.stackrox.io/component: "sensor"
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: This SCC is based on privileged, hostaccess, and hostmount-anyuid
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:collector
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: true
allowPrivilegedContainer: true
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
groups: []
priority: 0
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: true
allowedCapabilities: []
defaultAddCapabilities: []
requiredDropCapabilities: []
volumes:
  - configMap
  - downwardAPI
  - emptyDir
  - hostPath
  - secret
---
apiVersion: security.openshift.io/v1
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
metadata:
  name: stackrox-sensor
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: stackrox
    auto-upgrade.stackrox.io/component: "sensor"
  annotations:
    email: support@stackrox.com
    owner: stackrox
    kubernetes.io/description: stackrox-sensor is the security constraint for the sensor
users:
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:sensor
  - system:serviceaccount:stackrox:sensor-upgrader
priority: 0
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
seccompProfiles:
  - '*'
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
groups: []
readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
allowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
allowHostIPC: false
allowHostNetwork: false
allowHostPID: false
allowHostPorts: false
allowPrivilegeEscalation: true
allowPrivilegedContainer: false
allowedCapabilities: []
defaultAddCapabilities: []
requiredDropCapabilities: []
volumes:
  - configMap
  - downwardAPI
  - emptyDir
  - secret
EOF
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete scc admission-control collector sensor
----
