modules/virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate.adoc, before:

// Automatically generated by 'runbook-conversion.sh'. Do not edit.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate_{context}"]
= KubeVirtVMStuckInStartingState

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate_{context}"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a virtual machine (VM) is in a starting state for more
than 5 minutes.

This alert might indicate an issue in the VM configuration, such as a
misconfigured priority class or a missing network device.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate_{context}"]
== Impact

There is no immediate impact. However, if this alert persists, you must
investigate the root cause and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate_{context}"]
== Diagnosis

* Check the virtual machine instance (VMI) details for error conditions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe vmi <vmi> -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,yaml]
----
Name:          testvmi-ldgrw
Namespace:     kubevirt-test-default1
Labels:        name=testvmi-ldgrw
Annotations:   kubevirt.io/latest-observed-api-version: v1
               kubevirt.io/storage-observed-api-version: v1alpha3
API Version:   kubevirt.io/v1
Kind:          VirtualMachineInstance
...
Spec:
...
  Networks:
    Name:  default
    Pod:
  Priority Class Name:               non-preemtible
  Termination Grace Period Seconds:  0
Status:
  Conditions:
    Last Probe Time:       2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
    Message:               virt-launcher pod has not yet been scheduled
    Reason:                PodNotExists
    Status:                False
    Type:                  Ready
    Last Probe Time:       <nil>
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
    Message:               failed to create virtual machine pod: pods
    "virt-launcher-testvmi-ldgrw-" is forbidden: no PriorityClass with name
    non-preemtible was found
    Reason:                FailedCreate
    Status:                False
    Type:                  Synchronized
  Guest OS Info:
  Phase:  Pending
  Phase Transition Timestamps:
    Phase:                        Pending
    Phase Transition Timestamp:   2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
  Runtime User:                    0
  Virtual Machine Revision Name:
    revision-start-vm-6f01a94b-3260-4c5a-bbe5-dc98d13e6bea-1
Events:
  Type     Reason        Age                From                       Message
  ----     ------        ----               ----                       -------
  Warning  FailedCreate  8s (x13 over 28s)  virtualmachine-controller  Error
  creating pod: pods "virt-launcher-testvmi-ldgrw-" is forbidden: no
  PriorityClass with name non-preemtible was found
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate_{context}"]
== Mitigation

Ensure that the VM is configured correctly and has the required resources.

A `Pending` state indicates that the VM has not yet been scheduled. Check the
following possible causes:

* The `virt-launcher` pod is not scheduled.
* Topology hints for the VMI are not up to date.
* Data volume is not provisioned or ready.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.

Commit message:

Update anchor IDs for 4.13
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

modules/virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate.adoc, after:

// Do not edit this module. It is generated with a script.
// Do not reuse this module. The anchor IDs do not contain a context statement.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-KubeVirtVMStuckInStartingState"]
= KubeVirtVMStuckInStartingState

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a virtual machine (VM) is in a starting state for more
than 5 minutes.

This alert might indicate an issue in the VM configuration, such as a
misconfigured priority class or a missing network device.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate"]
== Impact

There is no immediate impact. However, if this alert persists, you must
investigate the root cause and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate"]
== Diagnosis

* Check the virtual machine instance (VMI) details for error conditions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe vmi <vmi> -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,yaml]
----
Name:          testvmi-ldgrw
Namespace:     kubevirt-test-default1
Labels:        name=testvmi-ldgrw
Annotations:   kubevirt.io/latest-observed-api-version: v1
               kubevirt.io/storage-observed-api-version: v1alpha3
API Version:   kubevirt.io/v1
Kind:          VirtualMachineInstance
...
Spec:
...
  Networks:
    Name:  default
    Pod:
  Priority Class Name:               non-preemtible
  Termination Grace Period Seconds:  0
Status:
  Conditions:
    Last Probe Time:       2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
    Message:               virt-launcher pod has not yet been scheduled
    Reason:                PodNotExists
    Status:                False
    Type:                  Ready
    Last Probe Time:       <nil>
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
    Message:               failed to create virtual machine pod: pods
    "virt-launcher-testvmi-ldgrw-" is forbidden: no PriorityClass with name
    non-preemtible was found
    Reason:                FailedCreate
    Status:                False
    Type:                  Synchronized
  Guest OS Info:
  Phase:  Pending
  Phase Transition Timestamps:
    Phase:                        Pending
    Phase Transition Timestamp:   2022-10-03T11:08:30Z
  Runtime User:                    0
  Virtual Machine Revision Name:
    revision-start-vm-6f01a94b-3260-4c5a-bbe5-dc98d13e6bea-1
Events:
  Type     Reason        Age                From                       Message
  ----     ------        ----               ----                       -------
  Warning  FailedCreate  8s (x13 over 28s)  virtualmachine-controller  Error
  creating pod: pods "virt-launcher-testvmi-ldgrw-" is forbidden: no
  PriorityClass with name non-preemtible was found
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirtvmstuckinstartingstate"]
== Mitigation

Ensure that the VM is configured correctly and has the required resources.

A `Pending` state indicates that the VM has not yet been scheduled. Check the
following possible causes:

* The `virt-launcher` pod is not scheduled.
* Topology hints for the VMI are not up to date.
* Data volume is not provisioned or ready.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.
