modules/virt-runbook-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification.adoc, before:

// Automatically generated by 'runbook-conversion.sh'. Do not edit.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification_{context}"]
= KubevirtHyperconvergedClusterOperatorUSModification

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification_{context}"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a JSON Patch annotation is used to change an operand
of the HyperConverged Cluster Operator (HCO).

HCO configures {VirtProductName} and its supporting operators in
an opinionated way and overwrites its operands when there is an unexpected
change to them. Users must not modify the operands directly.

However, if a change is required and it is not supported by the HCO API,
you can force HCO to set a change in an operator by using JSON Patch annotations.
These changes are not reverted by HCO during its reconciliation process.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification_{context}"]
== Impact

Incorrect use of JSON Patch annotations might lead to unexpected results
or an unstable environment.

Upgrading a system with JSON Patch annotations is dangerous because the
structure of the component custom resources might change.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification_{context}"]
== Diagnosis

* Check the `annotation_name` in the alert details to identify the JSON
Patch annotation:
+
[source,text]
----
Labels
  alertname=KubevirtHyperconvergedClusterOperatorUSModification
  annotation_name=kubevirt.kubevirt.io/jsonpatch
  severity=info
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification_{context}"]
== Mitigation

It is best to use the HCO API to change an operand. However, if the change
can only be done with a JSON Patch annotation, proceed with caution.

Remove JSON Patch annotations before upgrade to avoid potential issues.

Commit message:

Update anchor IDs for 4.13
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

modules/virt-runbook-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification.adoc, after:

// Do not edit this module. It is generated with a script.
// Do not reuse this module. The anchor IDs do not contain a context statement.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-KubevirtHyperconvergedClusterOperatorUSModification"]
= KubevirtHyperconvergedClusterOperatorUSModification

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a JSON Patch annotation is used to change an operand
of the HyperConverged Cluster Operator (HCO).

HCO configures {VirtProductName} and its supporting operators in
an opinionated way and overwrites its operands when there is an unexpected
change to them. Users must not modify the operands directly.

However, if a change is required and it is not supported by the HCO API,
you can force HCO to set a change in an operator by using JSON Patch annotations.
These changes are not reverted by HCO during its reconciliation process.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification"]
== Impact

Incorrect use of JSON Patch annotations might lead to unexpected results
or an unstable environment.

Upgrading a system with JSON Patch annotations is dangerous because the
structure of the component custom resources might change.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification"]
== Diagnosis

* Check the `annotation_name` in the alert details to identify the JSON
Patch annotation:
+
[source,text]
----
Labels
  alertname=KubevirtHyperconvergedClusterOperatorUSModification
  annotation_name=kubevirt.kubevirt.io/jsonpatch
  severity=info
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirthyperconvergedclusteroperatorusmodification"]
== Mitigation

It is best to use the HCO API to change an operand. However, if the change
can only be done with a JSON Patch annotation, proceed with caution.

Remove JSON Patch annotations before upgrade to avoid potential issues.
