modules/virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate.adoc, before:

// Automatically generated by 'runbook-conversion.sh'. Do not edit.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate_{context}"]
= KubeVirtVMStuckInMigratingState

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate_{context}"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a virtual machine (VM) is in a migrating state for more
than 5 minutes.

This alert might indicate a problem in the cluster infrastructure, such as network
disruptions or insufficient node resources.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate_{context}"]
== Impact

There is no immediate impact. However, if this alert persists, you must
investigate the root cause and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate_{context}"]
== Diagnosis

. Check the node resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.allocatable'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
{
   "cpu": "5",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/kvm": "1k",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/sev": "0",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/tun": "1k",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/vhost-net": "1k",
   "ephemeral-storage": "33812468066",
   "hugepages-1Gi": "0",
   "hugepages-2Mi": "128Mi",
   "memory": "3783496Ki",
   "pods": "110"
}
----

. Check the node status conditions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.conditions'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
[
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient memory available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientMemory",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "MemoryPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has no disk pressure",
    "reason": "KubeletHasNoDiskPressure",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "DiskPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient PID available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientPID",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "PIDPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:30Z",
    "message": "kubelet is posting ready status",
    "reason": "KubeletReady",
    "status": "True",
    "type": "Ready"
  }
]
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate_{context}"]
== Mitigation

Check the migration configuration of the virtual machine to ensure that it is
appropriate for the workload.

You set a cluster-wide migration configuration by editing the `MigrationConfiguration`
stanza of the `KubeVirt` custom resource.

You set a migration configuration for a specific scope by creating a migration
policy.

You can determine whether a VM is bound to a migration policy by viewing its
`vm.Status.MigrationState.MigrationPolicyName` parameter.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.

Commit message:

Update anchor IDs for 4.13
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

modules/virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate.adoc, after:

// Do not edit this module. It is generated with a script.
// Do not reuse this module. The anchor IDs do not contain a context statement.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-KubeVirtVMStuckInMigratingState"]
= KubeVirtVMStuckInMigratingState

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a virtual machine (VM) is in a migrating state for more
than 5 minutes.

This alert might indicate a problem in the cluster infrastructure, such as network
disruptions or insufficient node resources.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate"]
== Impact

There is no immediate impact. However, if this alert persists, you must
investigate the root cause and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate"]
== Diagnosis

. Check the node resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.allocatable'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
{
   "cpu": "5",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/kvm": "1k",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/sev": "0",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/tun": "1k",
   "devices.kubevirt.io/vhost-net": "1k",
   "ephemeral-storage": "33812468066",
   "hugepages-1Gi": "0",
   "hugepages-2Mi": "128Mi",
   "memory": "3783496Ki",
   "pods": "110"
}
----

. Check the node status conditions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.conditions'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
[
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient memory available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientMemory",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "MemoryPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has no disk pressure",
    "reason": "KubeletHasNoDiskPressure",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "DiskPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient PID available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientPID",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "PIDPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:30Z",
    "message": "kubelet is posting ready status",
    "reason": "KubeletReady",
    "status": "True",
    "type": "Ready"
  }
]
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirtvmstuckinmigratingstate"]
== Mitigation

Check the migration configuration of the virtual machine to ensure that it is
appropriate for the workload.

You set a cluster-wide migration configuration by editing the `MigrationConfiguration`
stanza of the `KubeVirt` custom resource.

You set a migration configuration for a specific scope by creating a migration
policy.

You can determine whether a VM is bound to a migration policy by viewing its
`vm.Status.MigrationState.MigrationPolicyName` parameter.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.
