modules/virt-runbook-virtoperatorresterrorshigh.adoc, before:

// Automatically generated by 'runbook-conversion.sh'. Do not edit.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-virtoperatorresterrorshigh_{context}"]
= VirtOperatorRESTErrorsHigh

[discrete]
[id="meaning-virtoperatorresterrorshigh_{context}"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when more than 5% of the REST calls in `virt-operator` pods
failed in the last 60 minutes. This usually indicates the `virt-operator` pods
cannot connect to the API server.

This error is frequently caused by one of the following problems:

* The API server is overloaded, which causes timeouts. To verify if this is
the case, check the metrics of the API server, and view its response times and
overall calls.
* The `virt-operator` pod cannot reach the API server. This is commonly caused
by DNS issues on the node and networking connectivity issues.

[discrete]
[id="impact-virtoperatorresterrorshigh_{context}"]
== Impact

Cluster-level actions, such as upgrading and controller reconciliation, might
be delayed.

However, workloads such as virtual machines (VMs) and VM instances
(VMIs) are not likely to be affected.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-virtoperatorresterrorshigh_{context}"]
== Diagnosis

. Set the `NAMESPACE` environment variable:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export NAMESPACE="$(oc get kubevirt -A \
  -o custom-columns="":.metadata.namespace)"
----

. Check the status of the `virt-operator` pods:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n $NAMESPACE get pods -l kubevirt.io=virt-operator
----

. Check the `virt-operator` logs for error messages when connecting to the
API server:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n $NAMESPACE logs <virt-operator>
----

. Obtain the details of the `virt-operator` pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n $NAMESPACE describe pod <virt-operator>
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-virtoperatorresterrorshigh_{context}"]
== Mitigation

* If the `virt-operator` pod cannot connect to the API server, delete the pod
to force a restart:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete -n $NAMESPACE <virt-operator>
----

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.

Commit message:

Update anchor IDs for 4.13
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

modules/virt-runbook-virtoperatorresterrorshigh.adoc, after:

// Do not edit this module. It is generated with a script.
// Do not reuse this module. The anchor IDs do not contain a context statement.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-VirtOperatorRESTErrorsHigh"]
= VirtOperatorRESTErrorsHigh

[discrete]
[id="meaning-virtoperatorresterrorshigh"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when more than 5% of the REST calls in `virt-operator` pods
failed in the last 60 minutes. This usually indicates the `virt-operator` pods
cannot connect to the API server.

This error is frequently caused by one of the following problems:

* The API server is overloaded, which causes timeouts. To verify if this is
the case, check the metrics of the API server, and view its response times and
overall calls.
* The `virt-operator` pod cannot reach the API server. This is commonly caused
by DNS issues on the node and networking connectivity issues.

[discrete]
[id="impact-virtoperatorresterrorshigh"]
== Impact

Cluster-level actions, such as upgrading and controller reconciliation, might
be delayed.

However, workloads such as virtual machines (VMs) and VM instances
(VMIs) are not likely to be affected.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-virtoperatorresterrorshigh"]
== Diagnosis

. Set the `NAMESPACE` environment variable:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export NAMESPACE="$(oc get kubevirt -A \
  -o custom-columns="":.metadata.namespace)"
----

. Check the status of the `virt-operator` pods:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n $NAMESPACE get pods -l kubevirt.io=virt-operator
----

. Check the `virt-operator` logs for error messages when connecting to the
API server:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n $NAMESPACE logs <virt-operator>
----

. Obtain the details of the `virt-operator` pod:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n $NAMESPACE describe pod <virt-operator>
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-virtoperatorresterrorshigh"]
== Mitigation

* If the `virt-operator` pod cannot connect to the API server, delete the pod
to force a restart:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete -n $NAMESPACE <virt-operator>
----

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.
