modules/virt-runbook-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount.adoc, before:

// Automatically generated by 'runbook-conversion.sh'. Do not edit.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount_{context}"]
= CDIDataVolumeUnusualRestartCount

[discrete]
[id="meaning-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount_{context}"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a `DataVolume` object restarts more than three
times.

[discrete]
[id="impact-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount_{context}"]
== Impact

Data volumes are responsible for importing and creating a virtual
machine disk on a persistent volume claim. If a data volume restarts
more than three times, these operations are unlikely to succeed. You
must diagnose and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount_{context}"]
== Diagnosis

. Obtain the name and namespace of the data volume:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get dv -A -o json | jq -r '.items[] | \
  select(.status.restartCount>3)' | jq '.metadata.name, .metadata.namespace'
----

. Check the status of the pods associated with the data volume:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n <namespace> -o json | jq -r '.items[] | \
  select(.metadata.ownerReferences[] | \
  select(.name=="<dv_name>")).metadata.name'
----

. Obtain the details of the pods:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n <namespace> describe pods <pod>
----

. Check the pod logs for error messages:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n <namespace> describe logs <pod>
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount_{context}"]
== Mitigation

Delete the data volume, resolve the issue, and create a new data volume.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer
Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.

Commit message:

Update anchor IDs for 4.13
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

modules/virt-runbook-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount.adoc, after:

// Do not edit this module. It is generated with a script.
// Do not reuse this module. The anchor IDs do not contain a context statement.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-CDIDataVolumeUnusualRestartCount"]
= CDIDataVolumeUnusualRestartCount

[discrete]
[id="meaning-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a `DataVolume` object restarts more than three
times.

[discrete]
[id="impact-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount"]
== Impact

Data volumes are responsible for importing and creating a virtual
machine disk on a persistent volume claim. If a data volume restarts
more than three times, these operations are unlikely to succeed. You
must diagnose and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount"]
== Diagnosis

. Obtain the name and namespace of the data volume:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get dv -A -o json | jq -r '.items[] | \
  select(.status.restartCount>3)' | jq '.metadata.name, .metadata.namespace'
----

. Check the status of the pods associated with the data volume:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n <namespace> -o json | jq -r '.items[] | \
  select(.metadata.ownerReferences[] | \
  select(.name=="<dv_name>")).metadata.name'
----

. Obtain the details of the pods:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n <namespace> describe pods <pod>
----

. Check the pod logs for error messages:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n <namespace> describe logs <pod>
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-cdidatavolumeunusualrestartcount"]
== Mitigation

Delete the data volume, resolve the issue, and create a new data volume.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer
Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.
