modules/virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate.adoc, before:

// Automatically generated by 'runbook-conversion.sh'. Do not edit.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate_{context}"]
= KubeVirtVMStuckInErrorState

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate_{context}"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a virtual machine (VM) is in an error state for more than
5 minutes.

Error states:

* CrashLoopBackOff
* Unknown
* Unschedulable
* ErrImagePull
* ImagePullBackOff
* PvcNotFound
* DataVolumeError

This alert might indicate an issue with the VM configuration, such as a missing
persistent volume claim, or a problem in the cluster infrastructure, such as
network disruptions or insufficient node resources.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate_{context}"]
== Impact

There is no immediate impact. However, if this alert persists, you must
investigate the root cause and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate_{context}"]
== Diagnosis

. Check the virtual machine instance (VMI) details:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe vmi <vmi> -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,yaml]
----
Name:          testvmi-hxghp
Namespace:     kubevirt-test-default1
Labels:        name=testvmi-hxghp
Annotations:   kubevirt.io/latest-observed-api-version: v1
               kubevirt.io/storage-observed-api-version: v1alpha3
API Version:   kubevirt.io/v1
Kind:          VirtualMachineInstance
...
Spec:
  Domain:
...
    Resources:
      Requests:
        Cpu:     5000000Gi
        Memory:  5130000240Mi
...
Status:
...
  Conditions:
    Last Probe Time:       2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Message:               Guest VM is not reported as running
    Reason:                GuestNotRunning
    Status:                False
    Type:                  Ready
    Last Probe Time:       <nil>
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Message:               0/2 nodes are available: 2 Insufficient cpu, 2
      Insufficient memory.
    Reason:                Unschedulable
    Status:                False
    Type:                  PodScheduled
  Guest OS Info:
  Phase:  Scheduling
  Phase Transition Timestamps:
    Phase:                        Pending
    Phase Transition Timestamp:   2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Phase:                        Scheduling
    Phase Transition Timestamp:   2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
  Qos Class:                       Burstable
  Runtime User:                    0
  Virtual Machine Revision Name:   revision-start-vm-3503e2dc-27c0-46ef-9167-7ae2e7d93e6e-1
Events:
  Type    Reason            Age   From                       Message
  ----    ------            ----  ----                       -------
  Normal  SuccessfulCreate  27s   virtualmachine-controller  Created virtual
    machine pod virt-launcher-testvmi-hxghp-xh9qn
----

. Check the node resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.allocatable'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "cpu": "5",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/kvm": "1k",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/sev": "0",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/tun": "1k",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/vhost-net": "1k",
  "ephemeral-storage": "33812468066",
  "hugepages-1Gi": "0",
  "hugepages-2Mi": "128Mi",
  "memory": "3783496Ki",
  "pods": "110"
}
----

. Check the node for error conditions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.conditions'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
[
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient memory available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientMemory",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "MemoryPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has no disk pressure",
    "reason": "KubeletHasNoDiskPressure",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "DiskPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient PID available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientPID",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "PIDPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:30Z",
    "message": "kubelet is posting ready status",
    "reason": "KubeletReady",
    "status": "True",
    "type": "Ready"
  }
]
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate_{context}"]
== Mitigation

Try to identify and resolve the issue.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.

Commit message:

Update anchor IDs for 4.13
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

modules/virt-runbook-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate.adoc, after:

// Do not edit this module. It is generated with a script.
// Do not reuse this module. The anchor IDs do not contain a context statement.
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/logging_events_monitoring/virt-runbooks.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-runbook-KubeVirtVMStuckInErrorState"]
= KubeVirtVMStuckInErrorState

[discrete]
[id="meaning-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate"]
== Meaning

This alert fires when a virtual machine (VM) is in an error state for more than
5 minutes.

Error states:

* CrashLoopBackOff
* Unknown
* Unschedulable
* ErrImagePull
* ImagePullBackOff
* PvcNotFound
* DataVolumeError

This alert might indicate an issue with the VM configuration, such as a missing
persistent volume claim, or a problem in the cluster infrastructure, such as
network disruptions or insufficient node resources.

[discrete]
[id="impact-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate"]
== Impact

There is no immediate impact. However, if this alert persists, you must
investigate the root cause and resolve the issue.

[discrete]
[id="diagnosis-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate"]
== Diagnosis

. Check the virtual machine instance (VMI) details:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe vmi <vmi> -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,yaml]
----
Name:          testvmi-hxghp
Namespace:     kubevirt-test-default1
Labels:        name=testvmi-hxghp
Annotations:   kubevirt.io/latest-observed-api-version: v1
               kubevirt.io/storage-observed-api-version: v1alpha3
API Version:   kubevirt.io/v1
Kind:          VirtualMachineInstance
...
Spec:
  Domain:
...
    Resources:
      Requests:
        Cpu:     5000000Gi
        Memory:  5130000240Mi
...
Status:
...
  Conditions:
    Last Probe Time:       2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Message:               Guest VM is not reported as running
    Reason:                GuestNotRunning
    Status:                False
    Type:                  Ready
    Last Probe Time:       <nil>
    Last Transition Time:  2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Message:               0/2 nodes are available: 2 Insufficient cpu, 2
      Insufficient memory.
    Reason:                Unschedulable
    Status:                False
    Type:                  PodScheduled
  Guest OS Info:
  Phase:  Scheduling
  Phase Transition Timestamps:
    Phase:                        Pending
    Phase Transition Timestamp:   2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
    Phase:                        Scheduling
    Phase Transition Timestamp:   2022-10-03T11:11:07Z
  Qos Class:                       Burstable
  Runtime User:                    0
  Virtual Machine Revision Name:   revision-start-vm-3503e2dc-27c0-46ef-9167-7ae2e7d93e6e-1
Events:
  Type    Reason            Age   From                       Message
  ----    ------            ----  ----                       -------
  Normal  SuccessfulCreate  27s   virtualmachine-controller  Created virtual
    machine pod virt-launcher-testvmi-hxghp-xh9qn
----

. Check the node resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.allocatable'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "cpu": "5",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/kvm": "1k",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/sev": "0",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/tun": "1k",
  "devices.kubevirt.io/vhost-net": "1k",
  "ephemeral-storage": "33812468066",
  "hugepages-1Gi": "0",
  "hugepages-2Mi": "128Mi",
  "memory": "3783496Ki",
  "pods": "110"
}
----

. Check the node for error conditions:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes -l node-role.kubernetes.io/worker= -o json | jq '.items | \
  .[].status.conditions'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,json]
----
[
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient memory available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientMemory",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "MemoryPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has no disk pressure",
    "reason": "KubeletHasNoDiskPressure",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "DiskPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:20Z",
    "message": "kubelet has sufficient PID available",
    "reason": "KubeletHasSufficientPID",
    "status": "False",
    "type": "PIDPressure"
  },
  {
    "lastHeartbeatTime": "2022-10-03T11:13:34Z",
    "lastTransitionTime": "2022-10-03T10:14:30Z",
    "message": "kubelet is posting ready status",
    "reason": "KubeletReady",
    "status": "True",
    "type": "Ready"
  }
]
----

[discrete]
[id="mitigation-kubevirtvmstuckinerrorstate"]
== Mitigation

Try to identify and resolve the issue.

If you cannot resolve the issue, log in to the
link:https://access.redhat.com[Customer Portal] and open a support case,
attaching the artifacts gathered during the diagnosis procedure.
