modules/virt-editing-vm-web.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/virt-edit-vms.adoc
// * virt/vm_templates/virt-editing-vm-template.adoc

// Establishing conditionals so content can be re-used for editing VMs
// and VM templates.

// The ifeval statements use the context of the assembly in which the module
// is included to declare 1) an attribute, and 2) the content of the {object}
// and {object-gui} variables used throughout. We need two variables because
// the object is lower case, but the gui elements are capitalized.

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-editing-vm-template"]
:virt-vm-template:
:object: virtual machine template
:object-gui: Templates
:object-vm-details: Template details
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-edit-vms"]
:virt-vm:
:object: virtual machine
:object-gui: VirtualMachines
:object-vm-details: VirtualMachine details
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-editing-vm-web_{context}"]

= Editing a {object} in the web console

Edit select values of a {object} in the web console by clicking the pencil icon next to the relevant field. Other values can be edited using the CLI.

You can edit labels and annotations for any templates, including those provided by Red Hat. Other fields are editable for user-customized templates only.

.Procedure

. Click *Virtualization* -> *{object-gui}* from the side menu.

. Optional: Use the *Filter* drop-down menu to sort the list of {object}s by attributes such as status, template, node, or operating system (OS).

. Select a {object} to open the *{object-vm-details}* page.

. Click any field that has the pencil icon, which indicates that the field is editable. For example, click the current *Boot mode* setting, such as BIOS or UEFI, to open the *Boot mode* window and select an option from the list.

. Make the relevant changes and click *Save*.

// Using the attributes we declared earlier, we can have different lines after
// the procedure that will be included in the different assemblies.

ifdef::virt-vm-template[]
Editing a virtual machine template will not affect virtual machines already created from that template.
endif::virt-vm-template[]
ifdef::virt-vm[]
[NOTE]
====
If the {object} is running, changes to *Boot Order* or *Flavor* will not take effect until you restart the {object}.

You can view pending changes by clicking *View Pending Changes* on the right side of the relevant field. The *Pending Changes* banner at the
top of the page displays a list of all changes that will be applied when the {object} restarts.
====
endif::virt-vm[]

// Unsetting the attributes/variables used in the module or else they will stay active
// subsequent modules in the assembly and topic_map.
// Attributes set with an ifeval statement need to be unset with an ifeval statement.

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-edit-vms"]
:virt-vm!:
:object!:
:object-gui!:
:object-vm-details!:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-editing-vm-template"]
:virt-vm-template!:
:object!:
:object-gui!:
:object-vm-details!:
endif::[]

Commit message:

CNV-18714: BZ2091856 - Note about templates that are uneditable

modules/virt-editing-vm-web.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/virt-edit-vms.adoc
// * virt/vm_templates/virt-editing-vm-template.adoc

// Establishing conditionals so content can be re-used for editing VMs
// and VM templates.

// The ifeval statements use the context of the assembly in which the module
// is included to declare 1) an attribute, and 2) the content of the {object}
// and {object-gui} variables used throughout. We need two variables because
// the object is lower case, but the gui elements are capitalized.

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-editing-vm-template"]
:virt-vm-template:
:object: virtual machine template
:object-gui: Templates
:object-vm-details: Template details
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-edit-vms"]
:virt-vm:
:object: virtual machine
:object-gui: VirtualMachines
:object-vm-details: VirtualMachine details
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-editing-vm-web_{context}"]

= Editing a {object} in the web console

Edit select values of a {object} in the web console by clicking the pencil icon next to the relevant field. Other values can be edited using the CLI.

You can edit labels and annotations for any templates, including those provided by Red Hat. Other fields are editable for user-customized templates only.

ifdef::virt-vm-template[]
[NOTE]
====
A template is unavailable for editing if:

* The template is automatically updated.
* The template uses a boot source that ships with {VirtProductName}.
====
endif::virt-vm-template[]

.Procedure

. Click *Virtualization* -> *{object-gui}* from the side menu.

. Optional: Use the *Filter* drop-down menu to sort the list of {object}s by attributes such as status, template, node, or operating system (OS).

. Select a {object} to open the *{object-vm-details}* page.

. Click any field that has the pencil icon, which indicates that the field is editable. For example, click the current *Boot mode* setting, such as BIOS or UEFI, to open the *Boot mode* window and select an option from the list.

. Make the relevant changes and click *Save*.

// Using the attributes we declared earlier, we can have different lines after
// the procedure that will be included in the different assemblies.

ifdef::virt-vm-template[]
Editing a virtual machine template will not affect virtual machines already created from that template.
endif::virt-vm-template[]
ifdef::virt-vm[]
[NOTE]
====
If the {object} is running, changes to *Boot Order* or *Flavor* will not take effect until you restart the {object}.

You can view pending changes by clicking *View Pending Changes* on the right side of the relevant field. The *Pending Changes* banner at the
top of the page displays a list of all changes that will be applied when the {object} restarts.
====
endif::virt-vm[]

// Unsetting the attributes/variables used in the module or else they will stay active
// subsequent modules in the assembly and topic_map.
// Attributes set with an ifeval statement need to be unset with an ifeval statement.

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-edit-vms"]
:virt-vm!:
:object!:
:object-gui!:
:object-vm-details!:
endif::[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "virt-editing-vm-template"]
:virt-vm-template!:
:object!:
:object-gui!:
:object-vm-details!:
endif::[]
