modules/virt-creating-a-vm-from-a-template-with-an-attached-boot-source.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-creating-and-using-boot-sources.adoc

[id="virt-creating-a-vm-from-a-template-with-an-attached-boot-source_{context}"]
= Creating a virtual machine from a template with an attached boot source

After you add a boot source to a template, you can create a new virtual machine from the template.

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console, click *Workloads > Virtualization* in the side menu.
. From the *Virtual Machines* tab or the *Templates* tab, click *Create* and select *Virtual Machine with Wizard*.
. In the *General* step, select an OS from the Operating System list that has the *(Source available)* label next to the OS and version name. The *(Source available)* label indicates that a boot source is available for this OS.
. Ensure that the *Clone available operating system source* checkbox is selected.
. Click *Review and Confirm*.
. Review your virtual machine settings and edit them, if required.
. Click *Create Virtual Machine* to create your virtual machine. The *Successfully created virtual machine* page is displayed.

Commit message:

CNV-13214: Adding NOTE to check for storage supporting cloning
Conflicts:
	modules/virt-creating-a-vm-from-a-template-with-an-attached-boot-source.adoc

modules/virt-creating-a-vm-from-a-template-with-an-attached-boot-source.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/virtual_disks/virt-creating-and-using-boot-sources.adoc

[id="virt-creating-a-vm-from-a-template-with-an-attached-boot-source_{context}"]
= Creating a virtual machine from a template with an attached boot source

After you add a boot source to a template, you can create a new virtual machine from the template.

.Procedure

. In the {product-title} web console, click *Workloads > Virtualization* in the side menu.
. From the *Virtual Machines* tab or the *Templates* tab, click *Create* and select *Virtual Machine with Wizard*.
. In the *General* step, select an OS from the Operating System list that has the *(Source available)* label next to the OS and version name. The *(Source available)* label indicates that a boot source is available for this OS.
. In the *Select a template* step, select an OS from the Operating System list that has the *(Source available)* label next to the OS and version name. The *(Source available)* label indicates that a boot source is available for this OS.
. Click *Review and Confirm*.
. Review your virtual machine settings and edit them, if required.
. Click *Create Virtual Machine* to create your virtual machine. The *Successfully created virtual machine* page is displayed.
