modules/virt-example-nmstate-IP-management.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-updating-node-network-config.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management_{context}"]
= Examples: IP management

The following example configuration snippets demonstrate different methods of IP management.

These examples use the `ethernet` interface type to simplify the example while showing the related context in the policy configuration. These IP management examples can be used with the other interface types.

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-static_{context}"]
== Static

The following snippet statically configures an IP address on the Ethernet interface:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: static IP on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        dhcp: false
        address:
        - ip: 192.168.122.250 <1>
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
# ...
----
<1> Replace this value with the static IP address for the interface.

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-no-ip_{context}"]
== No IP address

The following snippet ensures that the interface has no IP address:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: No IP on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        enabled: false
# ...
----

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-dhcp_{context}"]
== Dynamic host configuration

The following snippet configures an Ethernet interface that uses a dynamic IP address, gateway address, and DNS:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: DHCP on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        dhcp: true
        enabled: true
# ...
----

The following snippet configures an Ethernet interface that uses a dynamic IP address but does not use a dynamic gateway address or DNS:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: DHCP without gateway or DNS on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        dhcp: true
        auto-gateway: false
        auto-dns: false
        enabled: true
# ...
----

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-dns_{context}"]
== DNS

By default, the `nmstate` API stores DNS values globally as against storing them in a network interface. For certain situations, you must configure a network interface to store DNS values. To define a DNS configuration for a network interface, you must initially specify the `dns-resolver` section in the network interface's YAML configuration file.

[TIP]
====
Setting a DNS configuration is comparable to modifying the `/etc/resolv.conf` file.
====

The following examples show situations that require configuring a network interface to store DNS values:

[IMPORTANT]
====
You cannot use `br-ex` bridge, an OVNKubernetes-managed Open vSwitch bridge, as the interface when configuring DNS resolvers.
====

* Configure a static DNS for a network interface with an automatic IP configuration. Note that for this configuration, you must set the `auto-dns` parameter to `false`, so that the Kubernetes NMState Operator can store custom DNS settings for the network interface.
+
[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
    search:
    - example.com
    - example.org
    server:
    - 2001:db8:f::1
    - 192.0.2.251
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      auto-dns: false
    ipv6:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      autoconf: true
      auto-dns: false
# ...
----

* Configure a static DNS for a network interface with a static IP configuration. Note that for this configuration, you must set the `dhcp` parameter to `false` and the `autoconf` parameter to `false`.
+
[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
# ...
    server:
    - 2001:4860:4860::8844
    - 192.0.2.251
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: false
      address:
      - ip: 192.0.2.251
        prefix-length: 24
    ipv6:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: false
      autoconf: false
      address:
      - ip: 2001:db8:1::1
        prefix-length: 64
routes:
  config:
  - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.1
    next-hop-interface: eth1
  - destination: ::/0
    next-hop-address: 2001:db8:1::3
    next-hop-interface: eth1
# ...
----

* Configure a static DNS name server to append to Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and IPv6 Stateless Address AutoConfiguration (SLAAC) servers:
+
[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
# ...
    server:
    - 192.0.2.251
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      auto-dns: true
    ipv6:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      autoconf: true
      auto-dns: true
# ...
----

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-static-routing_{context}"]
== Static routing

The following snippet configures a static route and a static IP on interface `eth1`.

[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
# ...
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    description: Static routing on eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      dhcp: false
      enabled: true
      address:
      - ip: 192.0.2.251 <1>
        prefix-length: 24
routes:
  config:
  - destination: 198.51.100.0/24
    metric: 150
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.1 <2>
    next-hop-interface: eth1
    table-id: 254
# ...
----
<1> The static IP address for the Ethernet interface.
<2> Next hop address for the node traffic. This must be in the same subnet as the IP address set for the Ethernet interface.

Commit message:

Updates DNS NMState Operator important note for clarity

modules/virt-example-nmstate-IP-management.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-updating-node-network-config.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management_{context}"]
= Examples: IP management

The following example configuration snippets demonstrate different methods of IP management.

These examples use the `ethernet` interface type to simplify the example while showing the related context in the policy configuration. These IP management examples can be used with the other interface types.

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-static_{context}"]
== Static

The following snippet statically configures an IP address on the Ethernet interface:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: static IP on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        dhcp: false
        address:
        - ip: 192.168.122.250 <1>
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
# ...
----
<1> Replace this value with the static IP address for the interface.

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-no-ip_{context}"]
== No IP address

The following snippet ensures that the interface has no IP address:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: No IP on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        enabled: false
# ...
----

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-dhcp_{context}"]
== Dynamic host configuration

The following snippet configures an Ethernet interface that uses a dynamic IP address, gateway address, and DNS:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: DHCP on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        dhcp: true
        enabled: true
# ...
----

The following snippet configures an Ethernet interface that uses a dynamic IP address but does not use a dynamic gateway address or DNS:

[source,yaml]
----
# ...
    interfaces:
    - name: eth1
      description: DHCP without gateway or DNS on eth1
      type: ethernet
      state: up
      ipv4:
        dhcp: true
        auto-gateway: false
        auto-dns: false
        enabled: true
# ...
----

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-dns_{context}"]
== DNS

By default, the `nmstate` API stores DNS values globally as against storing them in a network interface. For certain situations, you must configure a network interface to store DNS values. To define a DNS configuration for a network interface, you must initially specify the `dns-resolver` section in the network interface's YAML configuration file.

[TIP]
====
Setting a DNS configuration is comparable to modifying the `/etc/resolv.conf` file.
====

The following examples show situations that require configuring a network interface to store DNS values:

[IMPORTANT]
====
Changing DNS servers in the `/etc/resolv.conf` file on nodes within an OVN Kubernetes cluster that uses the Kubernetes NMState Operator is not supported. Additionally, you cannot use the `br-ex` bridge for this purpose.
====

* Configure a static DNS for a network interface with an automatic IP configuration. Note that for this configuration, you must set the `auto-dns` parameter to `false`, so that the Kubernetes NMState Operator can store custom DNS settings for the network interface.
+
[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
    search:
    - example.com
    - example.org
    server:
    - 2001:db8:f::1
    - 192.0.2.251
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      auto-dns: false
    ipv6:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      autoconf: true
      auto-dns: false
# ...
----

* Configure a static DNS for a network interface with a static IP configuration. Note that for this configuration, you must set the `dhcp` parameter to `false` and the `autoconf` parameter to `false`.
+
[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
# ...
    server:
    - 2001:4860:4860::8844
    - 192.0.2.251
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: false
      address:
      - ip: 192.0.2.251
        prefix-length: 24
    ipv6:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: false
      autoconf: false
      address:
      - ip: 2001:db8:1::1
        prefix-length: 64
routes:
  config:
  - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.1
    next-hop-interface: eth1
  - destination: ::/0
    next-hop-address: 2001:db8:1::3
    next-hop-interface: eth1
# ...
----

* Configure a static DNS name server to append to Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and IPv6 Stateless Address AutoConfiguration (SLAAC) servers:
+
[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
# ...
    server:
    - 192.0.2.251
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      auto-dns: true
    ipv6:
      enabled: true
      dhcp: true
      autoconf: true
      auto-dns: true
# ...
----

[id="virt-example-nmstate-IP-management-static-routing_{context}"]
== Static routing

The following snippet configures a static route and a static IP on interface `eth1`.

[source,yaml]
----
dns-resolver:
  config:
# ...
interfaces:
  - name: eth1
    description: Static routing on eth1
    type: ethernet
    state: up
    ipv4:
      dhcp: false
      enabled: true
      address:
      - ip: 192.0.2.251 <1>
        prefix-length: 24
routes:
  config:
  - destination: 198.51.100.0/24
    metric: 150
    next-hop-address: 192.0.2.1 <2>
    next-hop-interface: eth1
    table-id: 254
# ...
----
<1> The static IP address for the Ethernet interface.
<2> Next hop address for the node traffic. This must be in the same subnet as the IP address set for the Ethernet interface.
