storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-nfs.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="persistent-storage-using-nfs"]
= Persistent storage using NFS
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-nfs

toc::[]

{product-title} clusters can be provisioned with persistent storage
using NFS. Persistent volumes (PVs) and persistent volume claims (PVCs)
provide a convenient method for sharing a volume across a project. While the
NFS-specific information contained in a PV definition could also be defined
directly in a `Pod` definition, doing so does not create the volume as a
distinct cluster resource, making the volume more susceptible to conflicts.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/managing_file_systems/mounting-nfs-shares_managing-file-systems[Mounting NFS shares]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-provisioning.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-enforcing-disk-quota.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-volume-security.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-group-ids.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-user-ids.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-selinux.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-export-settings.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-reclaiming-resources.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-additional-configuration.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

OCPBUGS-63453_FOR_4_21#OCP 4.21 Add user namespaces support for storage

storage/persistent_storage/persistent-storage-nfs.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="persistent-storage-using-nfs"]
= Persistent storage using NFS
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-nfs

toc::[]

{product-title} clusters can be provisioned with persistent storage
using NFS. Persistent volumes (PVs) and persistent volume claims (PVCs)
provide a convenient method for sharing a volume across a project. While the
NFS-specific information contained in a PV definition could also be defined
directly in a `Pod` definition, doing so does not create the volume as a
distinct cluster resource, making the volume more susceptible to conflicts.

[NOTE]
====
The in-tree NFS provisioner does not support user namespaces.
====

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/managing_file_systems/mounting-nfs-shares_managing-file-systems[Mounting NFS shares]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-provisioning.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-enforcing-disk-quota.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-volume-security.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-group-ids.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-user-ids.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-selinux.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-export-settings.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-reclaiming-resources.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/storage-persistent-storage-nfs-additional-configuration.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
