observability/distr_tracing/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-installing"]
= Installing the {DTShortName}
:context: distr-tracing-tempo-installing

toc::[]

Installing the {TempoShortName} involves the following steps:

. Installing the {TempoOperator}.

. Setting up a supported object store and creating a secret for the object store credentials.

. Configuring the permissions and tenants.

. Depending on your use case, installing your choice of deployment:

** Microservices-mode `TempoStack` instance

** Monolithic-mode `TempoMonolithic` instance 

[id="installing-the-tempo-operator_{context}"]
== Installing the {TempoOperator}

You can install the {TempoOperator} by using the web console or the command line.

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-storage-ref.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-aws-sts-cco-install.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iam/[AWS Identity and Access Management Documentation] (AWS documentation)
* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/[AWS Command Line Interface Documentation] (AWS documentation)
* xref:../../authentication/identity_providers/configuring-oidc-identity-provider.adoc#configuring-oidc-identity-provider[Configuring an OpenID Connect identity provider]
* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference-arns.html[Identify AWS resources with Amazon Resource Names (ARNs)] (AWS documentation)

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-azure-sts-install.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-linux[Install the Azure CLI on Linux] (Azure documentation)

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-gcp-sts-install.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install[Install the gcloud CLI] ({gcp-full} Documentation)
* link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-account-overview[Service accounts overview] ({gcp-full} Documentation)

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-ibm-storage.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.adoc#cli-getting-started[Getting started with the OpenShift CLI]
* link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cli-getting-started[Getting started with the {ibm-cloud-title} CLI] ({ibm-cloud-title} Docs)
* link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-provision[Choosing a plan and creating an instance] ({ibm-cloud-title} Docs)
* link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started-cloud-object-storage&q=credential&tags=cloud-object-storage&offset=10#getting-started[Getting started with {ibm-cloud-title} Object Storage: Before you begin] ({ibm-cloud-title} Docs)

[id="configuring-permissions-and-tenants_{context}"]
== Configuring the permissions and tenants

Before installing a `TempoStack` or `TempoMonolithic` instance, you must define one or more tenants and configure their read and write access. You can configure such an authorization setup by using a cluster role and cluster role binding for the Kubernetes Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). By default, no users are granted read or write permissions. For more information, see "Configuring the read permissions for tenants" and "Configuring the write permissions for tenants".

[NOTE]
====
The OpenTelemetry Collector of the {OTELName} can send trace data to a `TempoStack` or `TempoMonolithic` instance by using the service account with RBAC for writing the data.
====

.Authentication and authorization
|===
| Component | Tempo Gateway service | OpenShift OAuth | `TokenReview` API | `SubjectAccessReview` API

|Authentication
|X
|X
|X
|

|Authorization
|X
|
|
|X

|===

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-gateway-read-permissions.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-gateway-write-permissions.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../observability/otel/otel-installing.adoc#install-otel[Creating the required RBAC resources automatically]

[id="installing-a-tempostack-instance_{context}"]
== Installing a TempoStack instance

You can install a `TempoStack` instance by using the web console or command line.

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempostack-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempostack-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="installing-a-tempomonolithic-instance_{context}"]
== Installing a TempoMonolithic instance

:FeatureName: The `TempoMonolithic` instance
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

You can install a `TempoMonolithic` instance by using the web console or command line.

The `TempoMonolithic` custom resource (CR) creates a Tempo deployment in monolithic mode.
All components of the Tempo deployment, such as the compactor, distributor, ingester, querier, and query frontend, are contained in a single container.

A `TempoMonolithic` instance supports storing traces in in-memory storage, a persistent volume, or object storage.

Tempo deployment in monolithic mode is preferred for a small deployment, demonstration, and testing.

[NOTE]
====
The monolithic deployment of Tempo does not scale horizontally.
If you require horizontal scaling, use the `TempoStack` CR for a Tempo deployment in microservices mode.
====

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources
* xref:../../post_installation_configuration/preparing-for-users.adoc#creating-cluster-admin_post-install-preparing-for-users[Creating a cluster admin]
* link:https://operatorhub.io/[OperatorHub.io]
* xref:../../web_console/web-console.adoc#web-console[Accessing the web console]
* xref:../../operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc#olm-installing-from-software-catalog-using-web-console_olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[Installing from the software catalog using the web console]
* xref:../../operators/user/olm-creating-apps-from-installed-operators.adoc#olm-creating-apps-from-installed-operators[Creating applications from installed Operators]
* xref:../../cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.adoc#getting-started-cli[Getting started with the OpenShift CLI]

Commit message:

OBSDOCS-3043: Elaborate on Tempo's network policies

observability/distr_tracing/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-installing"]
= Installing the {DTShortName}
:context: distr-tracing-tempo-installing

toc::[]

Installing the {TempoShortName} involves the following steps:

. Installing the {TempoOperator}.

. Setting up a supported object store and creating a secret for the object store credentials.

. Configuring the permissions and tenants.

. Depending on your use case, installing your choice of deployment:

** Microservices-mode `TempoStack` instance

** Monolithic-mode `TempoMonolithic` instance 

[id="installing-the-tempo-operator_{context}"]
== Installing the {TempoOperator}

You can install the {TempoOperator} by using the web console or the command line.

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-storage-ref.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-aws-sts-cco-install.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/iam/[AWS Identity and Access Management Documentation] (AWS documentation)
* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/[AWS Command Line Interface Documentation] (AWS documentation)
* xref:../../authentication/identity_providers/configuring-oidc-identity-provider.adoc#configuring-oidc-identity-provider[Configuring an OpenID Connect identity provider]
* link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference-arns.html[Identify AWS resources with Amazon Resource Names (ARNs)] (AWS documentation)

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-azure-sts-install.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-linux[Install the Azure CLI on Linux] (Azure documentation)

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-gcp-sts-install.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install[Install the gcloud CLI] ({gcp-full} Documentation)
* link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-account-overview[Service accounts overview] ({gcp-full} Documentation)

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-ibm-storage.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.adoc#cli-getting-started[Getting started with the OpenShift CLI]
* link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cli-getting-started[Getting started with the {ibm-cloud-title} CLI] ({ibm-cloud-title} Docs)
* link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-provision[Choosing a plan and creating an instance] ({ibm-cloud-title} Docs)
* link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started-cloud-object-storage&q=credential&tags=cloud-object-storage&offset=10#getting-started[Getting started with {ibm-cloud-title} Object Storage: Before you begin] ({ibm-cloud-title} Docs)

[id="configuring-permissions-and-tenants_{context}"]
== Configuring the permissions and tenants

Before installing a `TempoStack` or `TempoMonolithic` instance, you must define one or more tenants and configure their read and write access. You can configure such an authorization setup by using a cluster role and cluster role binding for the Kubernetes role-based access control (RBAC). By default, users have no read or write permissions until you configure them. For more information, see "Configuring the read permissions for tenants" and "Configuring the write permissions for tenants".

[NOTE]
====
The OpenTelemetry Collector of the {OTELName} can send trace data to a `TempoStack` or `TempoMonolithic` instance by using the service account with RBAC for writing the data.
====

.Authentication and authorization
|===
| Component | Tempo Gateway service | OpenShift OAuth | `TokenReview` API | `SubjectAccessReview` API

|Authentication
|X
|X
|X
|

|Authorization
|X
|
|
|X

|===

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-gateway-read-permissions.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-gateway-write-permissions.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../observability/otel/otel-installing.adoc#install-otel[Creating the required RBAC resources automatically]

[id="installing-a-tempostack-instance_{context}"]
== Installing a TempoStack instance

You can install a `TempoStack` instance by using the web console or command line.

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempostack-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempostack-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="installing-a-tempomonolithic-instance_{context}"]
== Installing a TempoMonolithic instance

:FeatureName: The `TempoMonolithic` instance
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
:!FeatureName:

You can install a `TempoMonolithic` instance by using the web console or command line.

The `TempoMonolithic` custom resource (CR) creates a Tempo deployment in monolithic mode.
The TempoMonolithic deployment contains all Tempo components, such as the compactor, distributor, ingester, querier, and query frontend, in a single container.

A `TempoMonolithic` instance supports storing traces in in-memory storage, a persistent volume, or object storage.

Opt for Tempo deployment in monolithic mode for small deployments, demonstrations, and testing.

[NOTE]
====
The monolithic deployment of Tempo does not scale horizontally.
If you require horizontal scaling, use the `TempoStack` CR for a Tempo deployment in microservices mode.
====

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/distr-tracing-tempo-network-policies.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources
* xref:../../post_installation_configuration/preparing-for-users.adoc#creating-cluster-admin_post-install-preparing-for-users[Creating a cluster admin]
* link:https://operatorhub.io/[OperatorHub.io]
* xref:../../web_console/web-console.adoc#web-console[Accessing the web console]
* xref:../../operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc#olm-installing-from-software-catalog-using-web-console_olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[Installing from the software catalog using the web console]
* xref:../../operators/user/olm-creating-apps-from-installed-operators.adoc#olm-creating-apps-from-installed-operators[Creating applications from installed Operators]
* xref:../../cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.adoc#getting-started-cli[Getting started with the OpenShift CLI]
