:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="bare-metal-post-installation-configuration"]
= Postinstallation configuration
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: bare-metal-postinstallation-configuration

toc::[]

After successfully deploying a bare-metal cluster, consider the following postinstallation procedures.


//About the cluster API
include::modules/bare-metal-about-the-cluster-api.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../machine_management/cluster_api_machine_management/cluster-api-about.adoc#luster-api-about[About the Cluster API]
* xref:../../machine_management/cluster_api_machine_management/cluster-api-getting-started.adoc#cluster-api-getting-started[Getting started with the Cluster API]

// Configuring NTP for disconnected clusters
include::modules/ipi-install-configuring-ntp-for-disconnected-clusters.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Enabling a provisioning network after installation
include::modules/nw-enabling-a-provisioning-network-after-installation.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Creating a manifest object that includes a customized `br-ex` bridge
include::modules/creating-manifest-file-customized-br-ex-bridge.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/converting-to-dual-stack.adoc#nw-dual-stack-convert_converting-to-dual-stack[Converting to a dual-stack cluster network]

* xref:../../installing/installing_bare_metal/bare-metal-expanding-the-cluster.adoc#bare-metal-expanding-the-cluster[Expanding the cluster]

// Enabling OVS balance-slb mode for your cluster
include::modules/enabling-OVS-balance-slb-mode.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Services for a user-managed load balancer
include::modules/nw-osp-services-external-load-balancer.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Configuring a user-managed load balancer
include::modules/nw-osp-configuring-external-load-balancer.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Using the Bare Metal Operator
include::modules/bmo-config-using-bare-metal-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
// Bare Metal Operator architecture
include::modules/bmo-bare-metal-operator-architecture.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// About the BareMetalHost resource
include::modules/bmo-about-the-baremetalhost-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Getting the BareMetalHost resource
include::modules/bmo-getting-the-baremetalhost-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Editing a BareMetalHost resource
include::modules/bmo-editing-a-baremetalhost-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Troubleshooting latency.
include::modules/bmo-troubleshooting-latency-when-deleting-a-baremetalhost-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Attaching a non-bootable ISO to a bare-metal node
include::modules/bmo-attaching-a-non-bootable-iso-to-a-bare-metal-node.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Configuring NC-SI and DisablePowerOff for shared NICs
include::modules/bmo-configuring-ncsi-disable-poweroff.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// About the HostFirmwareSettings resource
include::modules/bmo-about-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Getting the HostFirmwareSettings resource
include::modules/bmo-getting-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Editing the HostFirmwareSettings resource
include::modules/bmo-editing-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource-of-a-provisioned-host.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Patching the HostFirmawareSettings resource
include::modules/bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwaresettings-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Verifying the HostFirmware Settings resource is valid
include::modules/bmo-verifying-the-hostfirmware-settings-resource-is-valid.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// About the FirmwareSchema resource
include::modules/bmo-about-the-firmwareschema-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Getting the FirmwareSchema resource
include::modules/bmo-getting-the-firmwareschema-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// About the HostFirmwareComponents resource
include::modules/bmo-about-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Getting the HostFirmwareComponents resource
include::modules/bmo-getting-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Editing the HostFirmwareComponents resource
include::modules/bmo-editing-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource-of-a-provisioned-host.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Patching the HostFirmawareComponents resource
include::modules/bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// About the HostUpdatePolicy resource
include::modules/bmo-about-the-hostupdatepolicy-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
// Setting the HostUpdatePolicy resource
include::modules/bmo-setting-the-hostupdatepolicy-resource.adoc[leveloffset=+2]