architecture/index.adoc, before:

[[architecture-index]]
= Overview
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

////
TODO According to Jim Minter, the entire Architecture section should at some point be reviewed for accuracy for both OSD and ARO.
////

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]
OpenShift v3 is a layered system designed to expose underlying Docker-formatted
container image and Kubernetes concepts as accurately as possible, with a focus
on easy composition of applications by a developer. For example, install Ruby,
push code, and add MySQL.

Unlike OpenShift v2, more flexibility of configuration is exposed after creation
in all aspects of the model. The concept of an application as a separate object
is removed in favor of more flexible composition of "services", allowing two web
containers to reuse a database or expose a database directly to the edge of the
network.
endif::[]
ifdef::atomic-registry[]
{product-title} is based on OpenShift technology which features an
embedded registry based on the upstream
link:https://github.com/docker/distribution[Docker Distribution,
role="external", window="_blank"] library. {product-title} provides the
following capabilities:

* A user-focused xref:infrastructure_components/web_console.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-web-console[web console].
* Global xref:additional_concepts/authentication.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authentication[identity provider authentication].
* A xref:core_concepts/projects_and_users.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-projects-and-users[project namespace] model to
enable teams to collaborate through xref:additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authorization[role-based access control (RBAC)]
authorization.
* A xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[Kubernetes-based cluster]
to manage services.
* An image abstraction called xref:core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-builds-and-image-streams[image streams] to enhance image management.

endif::[]
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]

[[arch-index-what-are-the-layers]]
== What Are the Layers?

The Docker service provides the abstraction for packaging and creating
Linux-based, lightweight
xref:core_concepts/containers_and_images.adoc#containers[container images]. Kubernetes
provides the
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[cluster management] and orchestrates containers on multiple hosts.

{product-title} adds:

- Source code management,
builds, and
xref:core_concepts/deployments.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-deployments[deployments] for developers
- Managing and promoting
xref:core_concepts/containers_and_images.adoc#docker-images[images] at scale
as they flow through your system
- Application management at scale
- Team and user tracking for organizing a large developer organization
- Networking infrastructure that supports the cluster

.{product-title} Architecture Overview
image::architecture_overview.png[{product-title} Architecture Overview]

For more information on the node types in the architecture overview, see xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[Kubernetes Infrastructure].
endif::[]

[[arch-index-what-is-the-architecture]]
== What Is the {product-title} Architecture?

{product-title} has a microservices-based architecture of smaller, decoupled units
that work together. It runs on top of a
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[Kubernetes
cluster], with data about the objects stored in
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#master[etcd], a
reliable clustered key-value store. Those services are broken down by function:

- xref:../rest_api/index.adoc#rest-api-index[REST APIs], which expose each of the
xref:core_concepts/index.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-index[core objects].
- Controllers, which read those APIs, apply changes to other objects, and report
status or write back to the object.

Users make calls to the REST API to change the state of the system. Controllers
use the REST API to read the user's desired state, and then try to bring the
other parts of the system into sync. For example, when a user requests a
build they create a
"build" object. The build controller sees that a new build has been created, and
runs a process on the cluster to perform that build. When the build completes,
the controller updates the build object via the REST API and the user sees that
their build is complete.

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]
The controller pattern means that much of the functionality in {product-title}
is extensible. The way that builds are run and launched can be customized
independently of how images are managed, or how
xref:core_concepts/deployments.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-deployments[deployments] happen. The controllers are
performing the "business logic" of the system, taking user actions and
transforming them into reality. By customizing those controllers or replacing
them with your own logic, different behaviors can be implemented. From a system
administration perspective, this also means the API can be used to script common
administrative actions on a repeating schedule. Those scripts are also
controllers that watch for changes and take action. {product-title} makes the
ability to customize the cluster in this way a first-class behavior.
endif::[]

To make this possible, controllers leverage a reliable stream of changes to the
system to sync their view of the system with what users are doing. This event
stream pushes changes from etcd to the REST API and then to the controllers as
soon as changes occur, so changes can ripple out through the system very quickly
and efficiently. However, since failures can occur at any time, the controllers
must also be able to get the latest state of the system at startup, and confirm
that everything is in the right state. This resynchronization is important,
because it means that even if something goes wrong, then the operator can
restart the affected components, and the system double checks everything before
continuing. The system should eventually converge to the user's intent, since
the controllers can always bring the system into sync.

[[arch-index-how-is-it-secured]]
== How Is {product-title} Secured?

The {product-title} and Kubernetes APIs
xref:additional_concepts/authentication.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authentication[authenticate] users who present
credentials, and then xref:additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authorization[authorize]
them based on their role. Both developers and administrators can be
authenticated via a number of means, primarily
xref:additional_concepts/authentication.adoc#oauth[OAuth tokens] and X.509
client certificates. OAuth tokens are signed with JSON Web Algorithm
_RS256_, which is RSA signature algorithm PKCS#1 v1.5 with SHA-256.

Developers (clients of the system) typically make REST API calls from a
xref:../cli_reference/index.adoc#cli-reference-index[client program] like `oc` or to the
xref:infrastructure_components/web_console.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-web-console[web console] via their browser,
and use OAuth bearer tokens for most communications. Infrastructure components
(like nodes) use client certificates generated by the system that contain their
identities. Infrastructure components that run in containers use a token
associated with their xref:../dev_guide/service_accounts.adoc#dev-guide-service-accounts[service account]
to connect to the API.

Authorization is handled in the {product-title} policy engine, which defines
actions like "create pod" or "list services" and groups them into roles in a
policy document. Roles are bound to users or groups by the user or group
identifier. When a user or service account attempts an action, the policy engine
checks for one or more of the roles assigned to the user (e.g., cluster
administrator or administrator of the current project) before allowing it to
continue.

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise[]
Since every container that runs on the cluster is associated with a service
account, it is also possible to associate
xref:../dev_guide/secrets.adoc#dev-guide-secrets[secrets] to those service accounts and have them
automatically delivered into the container. This enables the infrastructure to
manage secrets for pulling and pushing images, builds, and the deployment
components, and also allows application code to easily leverage those secrets.
endif::[]

[[arch-index-how-is-it-secured-tls]]
=== TLS Support

All communication channels with the REST API, as well as between
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#master-components[master components] such as etcd and the API server, are secured with TLS. TLS provides
strong encryption, data integrity, and authentication of servers with X.509
server certificates and public key infrastructure.
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]
By default, a new internal PKI is created for each deployment of
{product-title}. The internal PKI uses 2048 bit RSA keys and SHA-256 signatures.
endif::[]
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise[]
xref:../install_config/certificate_customization.adoc#install-config-certificate-customization[Custom certificates] for public hosts are supported as well.
endif::[]

{product-title} uses Golang’s standard library implementation of
link:https://golang.org/pkg/crypto/tls/[*crypto/tls*] and does not depend on any
external crypto and TLS libraries. Additionally, the client depends on external
libraries for GSSAPI authentication and OpenPGP signatures. GSSAPI is typically
provided by either MIT Kerberos or Heimdal Kerberos, which both use OpenSSL's
libcrypto. OpenPGP signature verification is handled by libgpgme and GnuPG.

The insecure versions SSL 2.0 and SSL 3.0 are unsupported and not available. The
{product-title} server and `oc` client only provide TLS 1.2 by default. TLS 1.0
and TLS 1.1 can be enabled in the server configuration. Both server and client
prefer modern cipher suites with authenticated encryption algorithms and perfect
forward secrecy. Cipher suites with deprecated and insecure algorithms such as
RC4, 3DES, and MD5 are disabled. Some internal clients (for example, LDAP
authentication) have less restrict settings with TLS 1.0 to 1.2 and more cipher
suites enabled.

.Supported TLS Versions
[cols="4*", options="header"]
|===
|TLS Version
|{product-title} Server
|`oc` Client
|Other Clients

|SSL 2.0
|Unsupported
|Unsupported
|Unsupported

|SSL 3.0
|Unsupported
|Unsupported
|Unsupported

|TLS 1.0
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig,Disabled by default, but can be enabled in the server configuration.]
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig]
|Maybe footnoteref:[otherclient,Some internal clients, such as the LDAP client.]

|TLS 1.1
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig]
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig]
|Maybe footnoteref:[otherclient]

|TLS 1.2
|*Yes*
|*Yes*
|*Yes*

|TLS 1.3
|N/A footnoteref:[tls13,TLS 1.3 is still under development.]
|N/A footnoteref:[tls13]
|N/A footnoteref:[tls13]
|===

The following list of enabled cipher suites of {product-title}'s server and `oc`
client are sorted in preferred order:

- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`

Commit message:

adding Azure specific architecture + references

architecture/index.adoc, after:

[[architecture-index]]
= Overview
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

////
TODO According to Jim Minter, the entire Architecture section should at some point be reviewed for accuracy for both OSD and ARO.
////

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]
OpenShift v3 is a layered system designed to expose underlying Docker-formatted
container image and Kubernetes concepts as accurately as possible, with a focus
on easy composition of applications by a developer. For example, install Ruby,
push code, and add MySQL.

Unlike OpenShift v2, more flexibility of configuration is exposed after creation
in all aspects of the model. The concept of an application as a separate object
is removed in favor of more flexible composition of "services", allowing two web
containers to reuse a database or expose a database directly to the edge of the
network.
endif::[]
ifdef::atomic-registry[]
{product-title} is based on OpenShift technology which features an
embedded registry based on the upstream
link:https://github.com/docker/distribution[Docker Distribution,
role="external", window="_blank"] library. {product-title} provides the
following capabilities:

* A user-focused xref:infrastructure_components/web_console.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-web-console[web console].
* Global xref:additional_concepts/authentication.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authentication[identity provider authentication].
* A xref:core_concepts/projects_and_users.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-projects-and-users[project namespace] model to
enable teams to collaborate through xref:additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authorization[role-based access control (RBAC)]
authorization.
* A xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[Kubernetes-based cluster]
to manage services.
* An image abstraction called xref:core_concepts/builds_and_image_streams.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-builds-and-image-streams[image streams] to enhance image management.

endif::[]
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]

[[arch-index-what-are-the-layers]]
== What Are the Layers?

The Docker service provides the abstraction for packaging and creating
Linux-based, lightweight
xref:core_concepts/containers_and_images.adoc#containers[container images]. Kubernetes
provides the
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[cluster management] and orchestrates containers on multiple hosts.

{product-title} adds:

- Source code management,
builds, and
xref:core_concepts/deployments.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-deployments[deployments] for developers
- Managing and promoting
xref:core_concepts/containers_and_images.adoc#docker-images[images] at scale
as they flow through your system
- Application management at scale
- Team and user tracking for organizing a large developer organization
- Networking infrastructure that supports the cluster

.{product-title} Architecture Overview
image::architecture_overview.png[{product-title} Architecture Overview]

For more information on the node types in the architecture overview, see xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[Kubernetes Infrastructure].
endif::[]

[[arch-index-what-is-the-architecture]]
== What Is the {product-title} Architecture?

{product-title} has a microservices-based architecture of smaller, decoupled units
that work together. It runs on top of a
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-kubernetes-infrastructure[Kubernetes
cluster], with data about the objects stored in
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#master[etcd], a
reliable clustered key-value store. Those services are broken down by function:

- xref:../rest_api/index.adoc#rest-api-index[REST APIs], which expose each of the
xref:core_concepts/index.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-index[core objects].
- Controllers, which read those APIs, apply changes to other objects, and report
status or write back to the object.

ifdef::openshift-aro[]
The cluster runs on xref:azure/resources.adoc#architecture-azure-resources[Microsoft Azure cloud resources].
It is managed by {product-title} site reliability engineers who, among other things, follow
xref:azure/processes.adoc#architecture-azure-processes[cluster maintenance processes].
endif::[]

Users make calls to the REST API to change the state of the system. Controllers
use the REST API to read the user's desired state, and then try to bring the
other parts of the system into sync. For example, when a user requests a
build they create a
"build" object. The build controller sees that a new build has been created, and
runs a process on the cluster to perform that build. When the build completes,
the controller updates the build object via the REST API and the user sees that
their build is complete.

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]
The controller pattern means that much of the functionality in {product-title}
is extensible. The way that builds are run and launched can be customized
independently of how images are managed, or how
xref:core_concepts/deployments.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-deployments[deployments] happen. The controllers are
performing the "business logic" of the system, taking user actions and
transforming them into reality. By customizing those controllers or replacing
them with your own logic, different behaviors can be implemented. From a system
administration perspective, this also means the API can be used to script common
administrative actions on a repeating schedule. Those scripts are also
controllers that watch for changes and take action. {product-title} makes the
ability to customize the cluster in this way a first-class behavior.
endif::[]

To make this possible, controllers leverage a reliable stream of changes to the
system to sync their view of the system with what users are doing. This event
stream pushes changes from etcd to the REST API and then to the controllers as
soon as changes occur, so changes can ripple out through the system very quickly
and efficiently. However, since failures can occur at any time, the controllers
must also be able to get the latest state of the system at startup, and confirm
that everything is in the right state. This resynchronization is important,
because it means that even if something goes wrong, then the operator can
restart the affected components, and the system double checks everything before
continuing. The system should eventually converge to the user's intent, since
the controllers can always bring the system into sync.

[[arch-index-how-is-it-secured]]
== How Is {product-title} Secured?

The {product-title} and Kubernetes APIs
xref:additional_concepts/authentication.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authentication[authenticate] users who present
credentials, and then xref:additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-authorization[authorize]
them based on their role. Both developers and administrators can be
authenticated via a number of means, primarily
xref:additional_concepts/authentication.adoc#oauth[OAuth tokens] and X.509
client certificates. OAuth tokens are signed with JSON Web Algorithm
_RS256_, which is RSA signature algorithm PKCS#1 v1.5 with SHA-256.

Developers (clients of the system) typically make REST API calls from a
xref:../cli_reference/index.adoc#cli-reference-index[client program] like `oc` or to the
xref:infrastructure_components/web_console.adoc#architecture-infrastructure-components-web-console[web console] via their browser,
and use OAuth bearer tokens for most communications. Infrastructure components
(like nodes) use client certificates generated by the system that contain their
identities. Infrastructure components that run in containers use a token
associated with their xref:../dev_guide/service_accounts.adoc#dev-guide-service-accounts[service account]
to connect to the API.

ifdef::openshift-aro[]
{product-title} uses Azure Active Directory (AAD) for authentication. All users in the AAD hierarchy have developer access.

Members of the customer administrator group that is specified at cluster creation become
customer administrators, which can manage other users' projects.
endif::[]

Authorization is handled in the {product-title} policy engine, which defines
actions like "create pod" or "list services" and groups them into roles in a
policy document. Roles are bound to users or groups by the user or group
identifier. When a user or service account attempts an action, the policy engine
checks for one or more of the roles assigned to the user (e.g., cluster
administrator or administrator of the current project) before allowing it to
continue.

ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-online,openshift-enterprise[]
Since every container that runs on the cluster is associated with a service
account, it is also possible to associate
xref:../dev_guide/secrets.adoc#dev-guide-secrets[secrets] to those service accounts and have them
automatically delivered into the container. This enables the infrastructure to
manage secrets for pulling and pushing images, builds, and the deployment
components, and also allows application code to easily leverage those secrets.
endif::[]

[[arch-index-how-is-it-secured-tls]]
=== TLS Support

All communication channels with the REST API, as well as between
xref:infrastructure_components/kubernetes_infrastructure.adoc#master-components[master components] such as etcd and the API server, are secured with TLS. TLS provides
strong encryption, data integrity, and authentication of servers with X.509
server certificates and public key infrastructure.
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise,openshift-dedicated[]
By default, a new internal PKI is created for each deployment of
{product-title}. The internal PKI uses 2048 bit RSA keys and SHA-256 signatures.
endif::[]
ifdef::openshift-origin,openshift-enterprise[]
xref:../install_config/certificate_customization.adoc#install-config-certificate-customization[Custom certificates] for public hosts are supported as well.
endif::[]

{product-title} uses Golang’s standard library implementation of
link:https://golang.org/pkg/crypto/tls/[*crypto/tls*] and does not depend on any
external crypto and TLS libraries. Additionally, the client depends on external
libraries for GSSAPI authentication and OpenPGP signatures. GSSAPI is typically
provided by either MIT Kerberos or Heimdal Kerberos, which both use OpenSSL's
libcrypto. OpenPGP signature verification is handled by libgpgme and GnuPG.

The insecure versions SSL 2.0 and SSL 3.0 are unsupported and not available. The
{product-title} server and `oc` client only provide TLS 1.2 by default. TLS 1.0
and TLS 1.1 can be enabled in the server configuration. Both server and client
prefer modern cipher suites with authenticated encryption algorithms and perfect
forward secrecy. Cipher suites with deprecated and insecure algorithms such as
RC4, 3DES, and MD5 are disabled. Some internal clients (for example, LDAP
authentication) have less restrict settings with TLS 1.0 to 1.2 and more cipher
suites enabled.

.Supported TLS Versions
[cols="4*", options="header"]
|===
|TLS Version
|{product-title} Server
|`oc` Client
|Other Clients

|SSL 2.0
|Unsupported
|Unsupported
|Unsupported

|SSL 3.0
|Unsupported
|Unsupported
|Unsupported

|TLS 1.0
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig,Disabled by default, but can be enabled in the server configuration.]
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig]
|Maybe footnoteref:[otherclient,Some internal clients, such as the LDAP client.]

|TLS 1.1
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig]
|No footnoteref:[tlsconfig]
|Maybe footnoteref:[otherclient]

|TLS 1.2
|*Yes*
|*Yes*
|*Yes*

|TLS 1.3
|N/A footnoteref:[tls13,TLS 1.3 is still under development.]
|N/A footnoteref:[tls13]
|N/A footnoteref:[tls13]
|===

The following list of enabled cipher suites of {product-title}'s server and `oc`
client are sorted in preferred order:

- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
- `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
