logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc, before:

:context: cluster-logging-deploying
[id="cluster-logging-deploying"]
= Installing cluster logging
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]


You can install cluster logging by deploying
the Elasticsearch and Cluster Logging Operators. The Elasticsearch Operator
creates and manages the Elasticsearch cluster used by cluster logging. 
The Cluster Logging Operator creates and manages the components of the logging stack. 

The process for deploying cluster logging to {product-title} involves:

* Reviewing the xref:../logging/config/cluster-logging-storage-considerations#cluster-logging-storage[cluster logging storage considerations].

* Installing the Elasticsearch Operator and Cluster Logging Operator using the {product-title} xref:../logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc#cluster-logging-deploy-console_cluster-logging-deploying[web console] or xref:../logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc#cluster-logging-deploy-cli_cluster-logging-deploying[CLI].

// The following include statements pull in the module files that comprise
// the assembly. Include any combination of concept, procedure, or reference
// modules required to cover the user story. You can also include other
// assemblies.

include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-console.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Post-installation tasks

include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-memory.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-certificates.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-label.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Additional resources

* For more information on installing Operators, see xref:../operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc#olm-installing-operators-from-operatorhub_olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[Installing Operators from the OperatorHub].

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.6] Manually cherry pick #33202 to enterprise-4.6

logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc, after:

:context: cluster-logging-deploying
[id="cluster-logging-deploying"]
= Installing cluster logging
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]


You can install cluster logging by deploying
the Elasticsearch and Cluster Logging Operators. The Elasticsearch Operator
creates and manages the Elasticsearch cluster used by cluster logging.
The Cluster Logging Operator creates and manages the components of the logging stack.

The process for deploying cluster logging to {product-title} involves:

* Reviewing the xref:../logging/config/cluster-logging-storage-considerations#cluster-logging-storage[cluster logging storage considerations].

* Installing the Elasticsearch Operator and Cluster Logging Operator using the {product-title} xref:../logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc#cluster-logging-deploy-console_cluster-logging-deploying[web console] or xref:../logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc#cluster-logging-deploy-cli_cluster-logging-deploying[CLI].

// The following include statements pull in the module files that comprise
// the assembly. Include any combination of concept, procedure, or reference
// modules required to cover the user story. You can also include other
// assemblies.

include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-console.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources

* xref:../operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc#olm-installing-operators-from-operatorhub_olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[Installing Operators from the OperatorHub]

== Post-installation tasks

If you plan to use Kibana, you must xref:#cluster-logging-visualizer-indices_cluster-logging-deploying[manually create your Kibana index patterns and visualizations] to explore and visualize data in Kibana.

If your cluster network provider enforces network isolation, xref:#cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant_cluster-logging-deploying[allow network traffic between the projects that contain the OpenShift Logging operators].


include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Post-installation tasks

If you plan to use Kibana, you must xref:#cluster-logging-visualizer-indices_cluster-logging-deploying[manually create your Kibana index patterns and visualizations] to explore and visualize data in Kibana.

If your cluster network provider enforces network isolation, xref:#cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant_cluster-logging-deploying[allow network traffic between the projects that contain the OpenShift Logging operators].

include::modules/cluster-logging-visualizer-indices.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

.Additional resources

* xref:../networking/network_policy/about-network-policy.adoc[About network policy]
* xref:../networking/openshift_sdn/about-openshift-sdn.adoc[About the OpenShift SDN default CNI network provider]
* xref:../networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/about-ovn-kubernetes.adoc[About the OVN-Kubernetes default Container Network Interface (CNI) network provider]


// include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-memory.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-certificates.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// include::modules/cluster-logging-deploy-label.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
