logging/cluster-logging.adoc, before:

:context: cluster-logging
[id="cluster-logging"]
= About cluster logging and {product-title}
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]



As an {product-title} cluster administrator, you can deploy cluster logging to
aggregate logs for a range of {product-title} services.

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
The Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana (EFK) stack runs on worker nodes. As a
{product-title} administrator, you can monitor resource consumption in the
console and via Prometheus and Grafana. Due to the high work load required for
logging, more worker nodes may be required for your environment.

Logs in {product-title} are retained for two days before rotation. Logging
storage is capped at 600GiB. This is independent of a cluster's allocated base
storage.
endif::[]

// The following include statements pull in the module files that comprise
// the assembly. Include any combination of concept, procedure, or reference
// modules required to cover the user story. You can also include other
// assemblies.

include::modules/cluster-logging-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-components.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-elasticsearch.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-collector.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-kibana.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-curator.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-eventrouter.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-crd.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

Commit message:

dedicated logging corrections
corrections

adjustments

more adjustments

further adjustments

last adjustments

correction

correct

fix

uninstall

typo

logging/cluster-logging.adoc, after:

:context: cluster-logging
[id="cluster-logging"]
= About cluster logging and {product-title}
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]


ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
As an {product-title} cluster administrator, you can deploy cluster logging to
aggregate logs for a range of {product-title} services.
endif::[]

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
As an {product-title} administrator, you can deploy cluster logging to
aggregate logs for a range of {product-title} services.

The Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana (EFK) stack runs on worker nodes. As an
{product-title} administrator, you can monitor resource consumption in the
console and via Prometheus and Grafana. Due to the high work load required for
logging, more worker nodes may be required for your environment.

Logs in {product-title} are retained for two days before rotation. Logging
storage is capped at 600GiB. This is independent of a cluster's allocated base
storage.
endif::[]

// The following include statements pull in the module files that comprise
// the assembly. Include any combination of concept, procedure, or reference
// modules required to cover the user story. You can also include other
// assemblies.

include::modules/cluster-logging-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-components.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-elasticsearch.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-collector.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-kibana.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-curator.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-eventrouter.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/cluster-logging-about-crd.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
