Implementing sticky sessions is up to the underlying router configuration. The
default HAProxy template implements sticky sessions using the `balance source`
directive, which balances based on the source IP. In addition, the template
router plug-in provides the service name and namespace to the underlying
implementation. This can be used for more advanced configuration, such as
implementing stick-tables that synchronize between a set of peers.

Sticky sessions ensure that all traffic from a user's session go to the same
pod, creating a better user experience. While satisfying the user's requests,
the pod caches data, which can be used in subsequent requests. For example, for
a cluster with five back-end pods and two load-balanced routers, you can ensure
that the same pod receives the web traffic from the same web browser regardless
of the router that handles it.

While returning routing traffic to the same pod is desired, it cannot be
guaranteed. However, you can use HTTP headers to set a cookie to determine the
pod used in the last connection. When the user sends another request to the
application the browser re-sends the cookie and the router knows where to send
the traffic.

Cluster administrators can turn off stickiness for passthrough routes separately
from other connections, or turn off stickiness entirely.

By default, sticky sessions for passthrough routes are implemented using the
`source` xref:load-balancing[load balancing strategy]. The default can be
changed for all passthrough routes by using the `ROUTER_TCP_BALANCE_SCHEME`
environment variable, and for individual routes by using the
`*haproxy.router.openshift.io/balance*` xref:route-specific-annotations[route
specific annotation].

Other types of routes use the `leastconn` xref:load-balancing[load balancing
strategy] by default, which can be changed by using the
`ROUTER_LOAD_BALANCE_ALGORITHM` environment variable. It
can be changed for individual routes by using the
`*haproxy.router.openshift.io/balance*` xref:route-specific-annotations[route
specific annotation].


[NOTE]
====
Cookies cannot be set on passthrough routes, because the HTTP traffic cannot be
seen. Instead, a number is calculated based on the source IP address, which
determines the back-end.

If back-ends change, the traffic could head to the wrong server, making it less
sticky, and if you are using a load-balancer (which hides the source IP) the
same number is set for all connections and traffic is sent to the same pod.
====

In addition, the template
router plug-in provides the service name and namespace to the underlying
implementation. This can be used for more advanced configuration such as
implementing stick-tables that synchronize between a set of peers.

Specific configuration for this router implementation is stored in the
*_haproxy-config.template_* file located in the *_/var/lib/haproxy/conf_*
directory of the router container. 
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
The file may be
xref:../../install_config/router/customized_haproxy_router.adoc#install-config-router-customized-haproxy[customized]
endif::[]

[NOTE]
====
The `source` xref:load-balancing[load balancing strategy] does not distinguish
between external client IP
addresses; because of the NAT configuration, the originating IP address
(HAProxy remote) is the same. Unless the HAProxy router is running with
`*hostNetwork: true*`, all external clients will be routed to a single pod.
====