networking/metallb/about-metallb.adoc, before:

[id="about-metallb"]
= About MetalLB and the MetalLB Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: about-metallb-and-metallb-operator

toc::[]

As a cluster administrator, you can add the MetalLB Operator to your cluster so that when a service of type `LoadBalancer` is added to the cluster, MetalLB can add a fault-tolerant external IP address for the service.
The external IP address is added to the host network for your cluster.

// When to deploy MetalLB
include::modules/nw-metallb-when-metallb.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// MetalLB Operator custom resources
include::modules/nw-metallb-operator-custom-resources.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// MetalLB software components
include::modules/nw-metallb-software-components.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Layer 2
include::modules/nw-metallb-layer2.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Layer 2 and external traffic policy
include::modules/nw-metallb-layer2-extern-traffic-pol.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="limitations-and-restrictions_{context}"]
== Limitations and restrictions

// With fair confidence, this topic is temporary for 4.9.
[id="support-layer2-only_{context}"]
=== Support for layer 2 only

When you install and configure MetalLB on {product-title} 4.9 with the MetalLB Operator, support is restricted to layer 2 mode only.
In comparison, the open source MetalLB project offers load balancing for layer 2 mode and a mode for layer 3 that uses border gateway protocol (BGP).

// Ditto. This limitation should be lifted in 4.10.
[id="support-single-stack_{context}"]
=== Support for single stack networking

Although you can specify IPv4 addresses and IPv6 addresses in the same address pool, MetalLB only assigns one IP address for the load balancer.

When MetalLB is deployed on a cluster that is configured for dual-stack networking, MetalLB assigns one IPv4 or IPv6 address for the load balancer, depending on the IP address family of the cluster IP for the service.
For example, if the cluster IP of the service is IPv4, then MetalLB assigns an IPv4 address for the load balancer.
MetalLB does not assign an IPv4 and an IPv6 address simultaneously.

IPv6 is only supported for clusters that use the OVN-Kubernetes network provider.

// Infra considerations
include::modules/nw-metallb-infra-considerations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Layer 2 limitations
include::modules/nw-metallb-layer2-limitations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Incompat with IP failover
[id="incompatibility-with-ip-failover_{context}"]
=== Incompatibility with IP failover

MetalLB is incompatible with the IP failover feature. Before you install the MetalLB Operator, remove IP failover.

[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../../networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/overview-traffic.adoc#overview-traffic-comparision_overview-traffic[Comparison: Fault tolerant access to external IP addresses]

* xref:../../networking/configuring-ipfailover.adoc#nw-ipfailover-remove_configuring-ipfailover[Removing IP failover]

Commit message:

WIP: OSDOCS-2681 MetalLB and BGP
* Add BGP peer custom resource (SDN-1968)
* Add two `bgp` protocol address pool examples.
  One is simple and one shows custom advertisements.
* Add BFD profile custom resource (CNF-2671 OSDOCS-2923)
* Update BFD profile to match metallb-operator/97 on 19NOV.
* Updates for FRR template (SDN-2493)
* Revise graphic to use a LB IP that is not part of host network.

* Holdtime and keepalivetime as a string, metallb-operator#132.
  Thank you to Carlos and Mohamed.
* Support for a single ASN.
* BGP peers in same or diff AS
* Add dual-stack BGP peer example--one peer for
  IPv4 and another peer CR for IPv6.

* feat: mention validating webhooks
* fix: source address must be IPv4

* Add troubleshooting and support information
* ebgpMultiHop and plausible IPs for troubleshooting
  Corrections to `ebgpMultiHop` from Ori
* Metrics, routerID, and router reqs for BGP

networking/metallb/about-metallb.adoc, after:

[id="about-metallb"]
= About MetalLB and the MetalLB Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: about-metallb-and-metallb-operator

toc::[]

As a cluster administrator, you can add the MetalLB Operator to your cluster so that when a service of type `LoadBalancer` is added to the cluster, MetalLB can add an external IP address for the service.
The external IP address is added to the host network for your cluster.

You can configure MetalLB so that the IP address is advertised with layer 2 protocols.
With layer 2, MetalLB provides a fault-tolerant external IP address.

You can configure MetalLB so that the IP address is advertised with the BGP protocol.
With BGP, MetalLB provides fault-tolerance for the external IP address and load balancing.

MetalLB supports providing layer 2 for some IP addresses and BGP for other IP addresses.

// When to deploy MetalLB
include::modules/nw-metallb-when-metallb.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// MetalLB Operator custom resources
include::modules/nw-metallb-operator-custom-resources.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// MetalLB software components
include::modules/nw-metallb-software-components.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Layer 2
include::modules/nw-metallb-layer2.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// BGP
include::modules/nw-metallb-bgp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// External traffic policy, common to layer 2 and BGP
include::modules/nw-metallb-extern-traffic-pol.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="limitations-and-restrictions_{context}"]
== Limitations and restrictions

// Infra considerations
include::modules/nw-metallb-infra-considerations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Layer 2 limitations
include::modules/nw-metallb-layer2-limitations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// BGP limitations
include::modules/nw-metallb-bgp-limitations.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// Incompat with IP failover
[id="incompatibility-with-ip-failover_{context}"]
=== Incompatibility with IP failover

MetalLB is incompatible with the IP failover feature. Before you install the MetalLB Operator, remove IP failover.

[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources

* xref:../../networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/overview-traffic.adoc#overview-traffic-comparision_overview-traffic[Comparison: Fault tolerant access to external IP addresses]

* xref:../../networking/configuring-ipfailover.adoc#nw-ipfailover-remove_configuring-ipfailover[Removing IP failover]
