serverless/serverless-getting-started.adoc, before:

include::modules/serverless-document-attributes.adoc[]
[id="serverless-getting-started"]
= Getting started with {ServerlessProductName}
:context: serverless-getting-started
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

{ServerlessProductName} simplifies the process of delivering code from development into production by reducing the need for infrastructure set up or back-end development by developers.

Serverless is a cloud computing model where application developers do not need to provision servers or manage scaling for their applications. These routine tasks are abstracted away by the platform, allowing developers to push code to production more quickly than in traditional models.

[id="serverless-getting-started-how-it-works"]
== How {ServerlessProductName} works

Developers on {ServerlessProductName} can use the provided Kubernetes native APIs, as well as familiar languages and frameworks, to deploy applications and container workloads.

{ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} enables stateless, serverless workloads to all run on a single multi-cloud container platform with automated operations. Developers can use a single platform for hosting their microservices, legacy, and serverless applications.

{ServerlessProductName} is based on the open source Knative project, which provides portability and consistency across hybrid and multi-cloud environments by enabling an enterprise-grade serverless platform.

[id="serverless-getting-started-supported-configs"]
== Supported configurations

The set of supported features, configurations, and integrations for {ServerlessProductName}, current and past versions, are available at the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/4912821[Supported Configurations page].

Commit message:

SRVCOM-1580: Add Develop, autoscaling and intro content

serverless/serverless-getting-started.adoc, after:

include::modules/serverless-document-attributes.adoc[]
[id="serverless-getting-started"]
= Getting started with {ServerlessProductName}
:context: serverless-getting-started
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

{ServerlessProductName} simplifies the process of delivering code from development into production by reducing the need for infrastructure set up or back-end development by developers.

Serverless is a cloud computing model where application developers do not need to provision servers or manage scaling for their applications. These routine tasks are abstracted away by the platform, allowing developers to push code to production more quickly than in traditional models.

[id="serverless-getting-started-how-it-works"]
== How {ServerlessProductName} works

Developers on {ServerlessProductName} can use the provided Kubernetes native APIs, as well as familiar languages and frameworks, to deploy applications and container workloads.

{ServerlessProductName} on {product-title} enables stateless, serverless workloads to all run on a single multi-cloud container platform with automated operations. Developers can use a single platform for hosting their microservices, legacy, and serverless applications.

{ServerlessProductName} is based on the open source Knative project, which provides portability and consistency across hybrid and multi-cloud environments by enabling an enterprise-grade serverless platform.

[id="serverless-getting-started-components"]
=== Key components

Serving:: Run serverless containers on Kubernetes with ease. Knative takes care of the details of networking, autoscaling, and revision tracking. You just have to focus on your core logic.

Eventing:: Universal subscription, delivery, and management of events. Build modern apps by attaching compute to a data stream with declarative event connectivity and developer-friendly object model.

[id="serverless-getting-started-supported-configs"]
== Supported configurations

The set of supported features, configurations, and integrations for {ServerlessProductName}, current and past versions, are available at the link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/4912821[Supported Configurations page].
