service_mesh/service_mesh_install/installing-ossm.adoc, before:

[id="installing-ossm"]
= Installing {ProductName}
include::modules/ossm-document-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-ossm
toc::[]

Installing the {ProductShortName} involves installing the Elasticsearch, Jaeger, Kiali and {ProductShortName} Operators, creating and managing a `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource to deploy the control plane, and creating a `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` resource to specify the namespaces associated with the {ProductShortName}.

[NOTE]
====
Mixer’s policy enforcement is disabled by default. You must enable it to run policy tasks. See xref:../service_mesh_day_two/prepare-to-deploy-applications-ossm.adoc#ossm-mixer-policy_deploying-applications-ossm[Update Mixer policy enforcement] for instructions on enabling Mixer policy enforcement.
====

[NOTE]
====
Multi-tenant control plane installations are the default configuration starting with {ProductName} 1.0.
====

[NOTE]
====
The {ProductShortName} documentation uses `istio-system` as the example project, but you may deploy the service mesh to any project.
====

.Prerequisites
* Follow the xref:../service_mesh_install/preparing-ossm-installation.adoc#preparing-ossm-installation[Preparing to install {ProductName}] process.
* An account with the `cluster-admin` role.

include::modules/ossm-operatorhub-install.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/ossm-control-plane-deploy.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

For a multitenant installation, {ProductName} supports multiple independent control planes within the cluster.  You can create reusable configurations with `ServiceMeshControlPlane` templates.  For more information, see xref:../service_mesh_day_two/prepare-to-deploy-applications-ossm.adoc#ossm-control-plane-templates_deploying-applications-ossm[Creating control plane templates].


include::modules/ossm-member-roll-create.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/ossm-member-roll-modify.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/ossm-member-roll-delete.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/ossm-update-app-sidecar.adoc[leveloffset=+1]



.Next steps

* xref:../service_mesh_install/customizing-installation-ossm.adoc#customize-installation-ossm[Customize the {ProductName} installation].

* xref:../service_mesh_day_two/prepare-to-deploy-applications-ossm.adoc#deploying-applications-ossm[Prepare to deploy applications] on {ProductName}.

Commit message:

Break operator topic into modules.

service_mesh/service_mesh_install/installing-ossm.adoc, after:

[id="installing-ossm"]
= Installing {ProductName}
include::modules/ossm-document-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-ossm
toc::[]

Installing the {ProductShortName} involves using the link:https://operatorhub.io/[OperatorHub] to install the Elasticsearch, Jaeger, Kiali, and {ProductShortName} Operators.

After you have installed the Operators, you use the {ProductName} operator to create the  `ServiceMeshControlPlane` custom resource definition.   You must install the Elasticsearch Operator, the Jaeger Operator, and the Kiali Operator before the {ProductName} Operator can create the control plane.  You use the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` to define the configuration to be used during installation of an instance of the service mesh. You can deploy the default configuration provided by Red Hat or customize the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` file to fit your business needs.

Then you use the {ProductName} operator to create the  `ServiceMeshMemberRoll`.  The `ServiceMeshMemberRoll` defines which services belong to an instance of the service mesh.

.Prerequisites
* Follow the xref:../service_mesh_install/preparing-ossm-installation.adoc#preparing-ossm-installation[Preparing to install {ProductName}] process.
* An account with the `cluster-admin` role.

include::modules/ossm-install-elasticsearch.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/ossm-install-jaeger.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/ossm-install-kiali.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/ossm-install-ossm.adoc[leveloffset=+1]


include::modules/ossm-control-plane-deploy.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/ossm-member-roll.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/ossm-update-app-sidecar.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Next steps

* xref:../service_mesh_install/customizing-installation-ossm.adoc#customize-installation-ossm[Customize the {ProductName} installation].

* xref:../service_mesh_day_two/prepare-to-deploy-applications-ossm.adoc#deploying-applications-ossm[Prepare to deploy applications] on {ProductName}.
