admin_guide/manage_scc.adoc, before:

[[admin-guide-manage-scc]]
= Managing Security Context Constraints
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:

toc::[]

== Overview
Security context constraints allow administrators to control permissions for
pods. To learn more about this API type, see the
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#security-context-constraints[security
context constraints] (SCCs) architecture documentation. You can manage SCCs in
your instance as normal API
xref:../architecture/core_concepts/index.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-index[objects] using
xref:../cli_reference/index.adoc#cli-reference-index[the CLI].

ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
[NOTE]
====
You must have
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#roles[*cluster-admin*
privileges] to manage SCCs.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not modify the default SCCs. Customizing the default SCCs can lead to issues
when upgrading. Instead, xref:creating-new-security-context-constraints[create
new SCCs].
====
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
As an {product-title} cluster administrator, you can list and view details for
SCCs, but cannot edit or delete the default SCCs.
endif::openshift-dedicated[]

[[listing-security-context-constraints]]
== Listing Security Context Constraints

To get a current list of SCCs:

----
$ oc get scc

NAME               PRIV      CAPS      SELINUX     RUNASUSER          FSGROUP     SUPGROUP    PRIORITY   READONLYROOTFS   VOLUMES
anyuid             false     []        MustRunAs   RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    10         false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
hostaccess         false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsRange     MustRunAs   RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir hostPath persistentVolumeClaim secret]
hostmount-anyuid   false     []        MustRunAs   RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir hostPath nfs persistentVolumeClaim secret]
hostnetwork        false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsRange     MustRunAs   MustRunAs   <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
nonroot            false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsNonRoot   RunAsAny    RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
privileged         true      [*]       RunAsAny    RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    <none>     false            [*]
restricted         false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsRange     MustRunAs   RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
----

[[examining-a-security-context-constraints-object]]
== Examining a Security Context Constraints Object

To examine a particular SCC, use `oc get`, `oc describe`, `oc export`, or `oc
edit`. For example, to examine the *restricted* SCC:

----
$ oc describe scc restricted
Name:					restricted
Priority:				<none>
Access:
  Users:				<none>
  Groups:				system:authenticated
Settings:
  Allow Privileged:			false
  Default Add Capabilities:		<none>
  Required Drop Capabilities:		KILL,MKNOD,SYS_CHROOT,SETUID,SETGID
  Allowed Capabilities:			<none>
  Allowed Seccomp Profiles:		<none>
  Allowed Volume Types:			configMap,downwardAPI,emptyDir,persistentVolumeClaim,projected,secret
  Allow Host Network:			false
  Allow Host Ports:			false
  Allow Host PID:			false
  Allow Host IPC:			false
  Read Only Root Filesystem:		false
  Run As User Strategy: MustRunAsRange
    UID:				<none>
    UID Range Min:			<none>
    UID Range Max:			<none>
  SELinux Context Strategy: MustRunAs
    User:				<none>
    Role:				<none>
    Type:				<none>
    Level:				<none>
  FSGroup Strategy: MustRunAs
    Ranges:				<none>
  Supplemental Groups Strategy: RunAsAny
    Ranges:				<none>
----

ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
[NOTE]
====
In order to preserve customized SCCs during upgrades, do not edit settings on
the default SCCs other than priority, users, groups, labels, and annotations.
====

[[creating-new-security-context-constraints]]
== Creating New Security Context Constraints

To create a new SCC:

. Define the SCC in a JSON or YAML file:
+
.Security Context Constraint Object Definition
----
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: scc-admin
allowPrivilegedContainer: true
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
users:
- my-admin-user
groups:
- my-admin-group
----
+
Optionally, you can add drop capabilities to an SCC by setting the
`*requiredDropCapabilities*` field with the desired values. Any specified
capabilities will be dropped from the container. For example, to create an SCC
with the `*KILL*`, `*MKNOD*`, and `*SYS_CHROOT*` required drop capabilities, add
the following to the SCC object:
+
----
requiredDropCapabilities:
- KILL
- MKNOD
- SYS_CHROOT
----
+
You can see the list of possible values in the
link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities[Docker
documentation].
+
[TIP]
====
Because capabilities are passed to the Docker, you can use a special `ALL` value
to drop all possible capabilities.
====

. Then, run `oc create` passing the file to create it:
+
----
$ oc create -f scc_admin.yaml
securitycontextconstraints "scc-admin" created
----

. Verify that the SCC was created:
+
----
$ oc get scc scc-admin
NAME        PRIV      CAPS      SELINUX    RUNASUSER   FSGROUP    SUPGROUP   PRIORITY   READONLYROOTFS   VOLUMES
scc-admin   true      []        RunAsAny   RunAsAny    RunAsAny   RunAsAny   <none>     false            [awsElasticBlockStore azureDisk azureFile cephFS cinder configMap downwardAPI emptyDir fc flexVolume flocker gcePersistentDisk gitRepo glusterfs iscsi nfs persistentVolumeClaim photonPersistentDisk quobyte rbd secret vsphere]
----

[[deleting-security-context-constraints]]
== Deleting Security Context Constraints

To delete an SCC:

----
$ oc delete scc <scc_name>
----

[NOTE]
====
If you delete a default SCC, it will be regenerated upon restart.
====

[[updating-security-context-constraints]]

== Updating Security Context Constraints

To update an existing SCC:

----
$ oc edit scc <scc_name>
----

[NOTE]
====
In order to preserve customized SCCs during upgrades, do not edit settings on
the default SCCs other than priority, users, and groups.
====

[[example-security-context-constraints]]
=== Example Security Context Constraints Settings

.Without Explicit runAsUser Setting
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: security-context-demo
spec:
  securityContext: <1>
  containers:
  - name: sec-ctx-demo
    image: gcr.io/google-samples/node-hello:1.0
----
<1> When a container or pod does not request a user ID under which it should be run,
the effective UID depends on the SCC that emits this pod. Because restricted SCC
is granted to all authenticated users by default, it will be available to all
users and service accounts and used in most cases. The restricted SCC uses
`MustRunAsRange` strategy for constraining and defaulting the possible values of
the `securityContext.runAsUser` field. The admission plug-in will look for the
`openshift.io/sa.scc.uid-range` annotation on the current project to populate
range fields, as it does not provide this range. In the end, a container will
have `runAsUser` equal to the first value of the range that is
hard to predict because every project has different ranges. See
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#understanding-pre-allocated-values-and-security-context-constraints[Understanding
Pre-allocated Values and Security Context Constraints] for more information.

.With Explicit runAsUser Setting
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: security-context-demo
spec:
  securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000 <1>
  containers:
    - name: sec-ctx-demo
      image: gcr.io/google-samples/node-hello:1.0
----
<1> A container or pod that requests a specific user ID will be accepted by
{product-title} only when a service account or a user is granted access to a SCC
that allows such a user ID. The SCC can allow arbitrary IDs, an ID that falls
into a range, or the exact user ID specific to the request.

This works with SELinux, fsGroup, and Supplemental Groups. See
xref:../install_config/persistent_storage/pod_security_context.adoc#install-config-persistent-storage-pod-security-context[Volume
Security] for more information.

[[updating-the-default-security-context-constraints]]
== Updating the Default Security Context Constraints

Default SCCs will be created when the master is started if they are missing. To reset SCCs
to defaults, or update existing SCCs to new default definitions after an upgrade you may:

. Delete any SCC you would like to be reset and let it be recreated by restarting the master
. Use the `oc adm policy reconcile-sccs` command

The `oc adm policy reconcile-sccs` command will set all SCC policies to the default
values but retain any additional users, groups, labels, and annotations as well as priorities you
may have already set. To view which SCCs will be changed you may run the command with no options or
by specifying your preferred output with the `-o <format>` option.

After reviewing it is recommended that you back up your existing SCCs and then
use the `--confirm` option to persist the data.

[NOTE]
====
If you would like to reset priorities and grants, use the
`--additive-only=false` option.
====

[NOTE]
====
If you have customized settings other than priority, users, groups, labels, or annotations in an
SCC, you will lose those settings when you reconcile.
====

[[how-do-i]]
== How Do I?

The following describe common scenarios and procedures using SCCs.

[[grant-access-to-the-privileged-scc]]

=== Grant Access to the Privileged SCC

In some cases, an administrator might want to allow users or groups outside the
administrator group access to create more _privileged pods_. To do so, you can:

. Determine the user or group you would like to have access to the SCC.
+
[WARNING]
====
Granting access to a user only works when the user directly creates a pod. For
pods created on behalf of a user, **in most cases** by the system itself, **access
should be given to a service account** under which related controller is operated
upon. Examples of resources that create pods on behalf of a user are
Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, etc.
====

. Run:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> <user_name>
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group <scc_name> <group_name>
----
+
For example, to allow the *e2e-user* access to the *privileged* SCC, run:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged e2e-user
----

. Modify `SecurityContext` of a container to request a privileged mode.

[[grant-a-service-account-access-to-the-privileged-scc]]

=== Grant a Service Account Access to the Privileged SCC

First, create a xref:../dev_guide/service_accounts.adoc#dev-guide-service-accounts[service account].
For example, to create service account `mysvcacct` in project `myproject`:

----
$ oc create serviceaccount mysvcacct -n myproject
----

Then, add the service account to the `privileged` SCC.

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged system:serviceaccount:myproject:mysvcacct
----

Then, ensure that the resource is being created on behalf of the service
account. To do so, set the `spec.serviceAccountName` field to a service account
name. Leaving the service account name blank will result in the `default`
service account being used.

Then, ensure that at least one of the pod's containers is requesting a
privileged mode in the security context.

[[enable-images-to-run-with-user-in-the-dockerfile]]

=== Enable Images to Run with USER in the Dockerfile

To relax the security in your cluster so that images are not forced to run as a
pre-allocated UID, without granting everyone access to the *privileged* SCC:

. Grant all authenticated users access to the *anyuid* SCC:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group anyuid system:authenticated
----

[WARNING]
====
This allows images to run as the root UID if no *USER* is specified in the
*_Dockerfile_*.
====

[[enable-dockerhub-images-that-require-root]]

=== Enable Container Images that Require Root

Some container images (examples: `postgres` and `redis`) require root access and
have certain expectations about how volumes are owned.  For these images, add
the service account to the `anyuid` SCC.

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid system:serviceaccount:myproject:mysvcacct
----

[[use-mount-host-on-the-registry]]

=== Use --mount-host on the Registry

It is recommended that
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/storage.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-storage[persistent storage] using
`*PersistentVolume*` and `*PersistentVolumeClaim*` objects be used for
xref:../install_config/registry/index.adoc#install-config-registry-overview[registry deployments]. If
you are testing and would like to instead use the `oc adm registry` command with
the `--mount-host` option, you must first create a new
xref:service_accounts.adoc#admin-guide-service-accounts[service account] for the registry and add it to the
*privileged* SCC. See the
xref:../install_config/registry/deploy_registry_existing_clusters.adoc#storage-for-the-registry[Administrator
Guide] for full instructions.

=== Provide Additional Capabilities

In some cases, an image may require capabilities that Docker does not provide
out of the box. You can provide the ability to request additional capabilities
in the pod specification which will be validated against an SCC.

[IMPORTANT]
====
This allows images to run with elevated capabilities and should be used only if
necessary. You should not edit the default *restricted* SCC to enable additional
capabilities.
====

When used in conjunction with a non-root user, you must also ensure that the
file that requires the additional capability is granted the capabilities using
the `setcap` command. For example, in the *_Dockerfile_* of the image:

----
setcap cap_net_raw,cap_net_admin+p /usr/bin/ping
----

Further, if a capability is provided by default in Docker, you do not need to
modify the pod specification to request it. For example, `*NET_RAW*` is provided
by default and capabilities should already be set on `*ping*`, therefore no
special steps should be required to run `*ping*`.

To provide additional capabilities:

. Create a new SCC

. Add the allowed capability using the `*allowedCapabilities*` field.

. When creating the pod, request the capability in the
`*securityContext.capabilities.add*` field.

[[modify-cluster-default-behavior]]
=== Modify Cluster Default Behavior

When you grant access to the *anyuid* SCC for everyone, your cluster:

* Does not pre-allocate UIDs
* Allows containers to run as any user
* Prevents privileged containers

----
 $ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group anyuid system:authenticated
----

To modify your cluster so that it does not pre-allocate UIDs and does not allow
containers to run as root, grant access to the *nonroot* SCC for everyone:

----
 $ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group nonroot system:authenticated
----

[WARNING]
====
Be very careful with any modifications that have a cluster-wide impact. When
you grant an SCC to all authenticated users, as in the previous example, or
modify an SCC that applies to all users, such as the *restricted* SCC, it also
affects Kubernetes and {product-title} components, including the web console
and integrated docker registry. Changes made with these SCCs can cause these
components to stop functioning.

Instead, create a custom SCC and target it to only specific users or
groups. This way potential issues are confined to the affected users or groups
and do not impact critical cluster components.
====

[[use-the-hostpath-volume-plugin]]

=== Use the hostPath Volume Plug-in

To relax the security in your cluster so that pods are allowed to use the
`hostPath` volume plug-in without granting everyone access to more privileged
SCCs such as *privileged*, *hostaccess*, or *hostmount-anyuid*, perform the
following actions:

. xref:creating-new-security-context-constraints[Create a new SCC] named `hostpath`

. Set the `*allowHostDirVolumePlugin*` parameter to `true` for the new SCC:
+
----
$ oc patch scc hostpath -p '{"allowHostDirVolumePlugin": true}'
----

. Grant access to this SCC to all users:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group hostpath system:authenticated
----

Now, all the pods that request `hostPath` volumes are admitted by the
`hostpath` SCC.

=== Ensure That Admission Attempts to Use a Specific SCC First

You may control the sort ordering of SCCs in admission by setting the `Priority`
field of the SCCs. See the
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#scc-prioritization[SCC
Prioritization] section for more information on sorting.

[[add-scc-to-user-group-project]]
=== Add an SCC to a User, Group, or Project

Before adding an SCC to a user or group, you can first use the `scc-review`
option to check if the user or group can create a pod. See the
xref:../dev_guide/authorization.adoc#dev-guide-authorization[Authorization]
topic for more information.

SCCs are not granted directly to a project. Instead, you add a service account
to an SCC and either specify the service account name on your pod or, when
unspecified, run as the `default` service account.

To add an SCC to a user:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> <user_name>
----

To add an SCC to a service account:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> \
    system:serviceaccount:<serviceaccount_namespace>:<serviceaccount_name>
----

If you are currently in the project to which the service account belongs, you
can use the `-z` flag and just specify the `<serviceaccount_name>`.

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> -z <serviceaccount_name>
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
Usage of the `-z` flag as described above is highly recommended, as it helps
prevent typos and ensures that access is granted only to the specified service
account. If not in the project, use the `-n` option to indicate the project
namespace it applies to.
====

To add an SCC to a group:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group <scc_name> <group_name>
----

To add an SCC to all service accounts in a namespace:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group <scc_name> \
    system:serviceaccounts:<serviceaccount_namespace>
----
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]

Commit message:

BZ-1743299: Clarifying how to find what service accounts an SCC is applied to
Conflicts:
	admin_guide/manage_scc.adoc

admin_guide/manage_scc.adoc, after:

[[admin-guide-manage-scc]]
= Managing Security Context Constraints
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:

toc::[]

== Overview
Security context constraints allow administrators to control permissions for
pods. To learn more about this API type, see the
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#security-context-constraints[security
context constraints] (SCCs) architecture documentation. You can manage SCCs in
your instance as normal API
xref:../architecture/core_concepts/index.adoc#architecture-core-concepts-index[objects] using
xref:../cli_reference/index.adoc#cli-reference-index[the CLI].

ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
[NOTE]
====
You must have
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#roles[*cluster-admin*
privileges] to manage SCCs.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not modify the default SCCs. Customizing the default SCCs can lead to issues
when upgrading. Instead, xref:creating-new-security-context-constraints[create
new SCCs].
====
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]

ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
As an {product-title} cluster administrator, you can list and view details for
SCCs, but cannot edit or delete the default SCCs.
endif::openshift-dedicated[]

[[listing-security-context-constraints]]
== Listing Security Context Constraints

To get a current list of SCCs:

----
$ oc get scc

NAME               PRIV      CAPS      SELINUX     RUNASUSER          FSGROUP     SUPGROUP    PRIORITY   READONLYROOTFS   VOLUMES
anyuid             false     []        MustRunAs   RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    10         false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
hostaccess         false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsRange     MustRunAs   RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir hostPath persistentVolumeClaim secret]
hostmount-anyuid   false     []        MustRunAs   RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir hostPath nfs persistentVolumeClaim secret]
hostnetwork        false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsRange     MustRunAs   MustRunAs   <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
nonroot            false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsNonRoot   RunAsAny    RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
privileged         true      [*]       RunAsAny    RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    <none>     false            [*]
restricted         false     []        MustRunAs   MustRunAsRange     MustRunAs   RunAsAny    <none>     false            [configMap downwardAPI emptyDir persistentVolumeClaim secret]
----

[[examining-a-security-context-constraints-object]]
== Examining a Security Context Constraints Object

You can view information about a particular SCC, including which users, service accounts, and groups the SCC is applied to.

For example, to examine the *restricted* SCC:

----
$ oc describe scc restricted
Name:					restricted
Priority:				<none>
Access:
  Users:				<none> <1>
  Groups:				system:authenticated <2>
Settings:
  Allow Privileged:			false
  Default Add Capabilities:		<none>
  Required Drop Capabilities:		KILL,MKNOD,SYS_CHROOT,SETUID,SETGID
  Allowed Capabilities:			<none>
  Allowed Seccomp Profiles:		<none>
  Allowed Volume Types:			configMap,downwardAPI,emptyDir,persistentVolumeClaim,projected,secret
  Allow Host Network:			false
  Allow Host Ports:			false
  Allow Host PID:			false
  Allow Host IPC:			false
  Read Only Root Filesystem:		false
  Run As User Strategy: MustRunAsRange
    UID:				<none>
    UID Range Min:			<none>
    UID Range Max:			<none>
  SELinux Context Strategy: MustRunAs
    User:				<none>
    Role:				<none>
    Type:				<none>
    Level:				<none>
  FSGroup Strategy: MustRunAs
    Ranges:				<none>
  Supplemental Groups Strategy: RunAsAny
    Ranges:				<none>
----
<1> Lists which users and service accounts the SCC is applied to.
<2> Lists which groups the SCC is applied to.

ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
[NOTE]
====
In order to preserve customized SCCs during upgrades, do not edit settings on
the default SCCs other than priority, users, groups, labels, and annotations.
====

[[creating-new-security-context-constraints]]
== Creating New Security Context Constraints

To create a new SCC:

. Define the SCC in a JSON or YAML file:
+
.Security Context Constraint Object Definition
----
kind: SecurityContextConstraints
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: scc-admin
allowPrivilegedContainer: true
runAsUser:
  type: RunAsAny
seLinuxContext:
  type: RunAsAny
fsGroup:
  type: RunAsAny
supplementalGroups:
  type: RunAsAny
users:
- my-admin-user
groups:
- my-admin-group
----
+
Optionally, you can add drop capabilities to an SCC by setting the
`*requiredDropCapabilities*` field with the desired values. Any specified
capabilities will be dropped from the container. For example, to create an SCC
with the `*KILL*`, `*MKNOD*`, and `*SYS_CHROOT*` required drop capabilities, add
the following to the SCC object:
+
----
requiredDropCapabilities:
- KILL
- MKNOD
- SYS_CHROOT
----
+
You can see the list of possible values in the
link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities[Docker
documentation].
+
[TIP]
====
Because capabilities are passed to the Docker, you can use a special `ALL` value
to drop all possible capabilities.
====

. Then, run `oc create` passing the file to create it:
+
----
$ oc create -f scc_admin.yaml
securitycontextconstraints "scc-admin" created
----

. Verify that the SCC was created:
+
----
$ oc get scc scc-admin
NAME        PRIV      CAPS      SELINUX    RUNASUSER   FSGROUP    SUPGROUP   PRIORITY   READONLYROOTFS   VOLUMES
scc-admin   true      []        RunAsAny   RunAsAny    RunAsAny   RunAsAny   <none>     false            [awsElasticBlockStore azureDisk azureFile cephFS cinder configMap downwardAPI emptyDir fc flexVolume flocker gcePersistentDisk gitRepo glusterfs iscsi nfs persistentVolumeClaim photonPersistentDisk quobyte rbd secret vsphere]
----

[[deleting-security-context-constraints]]
== Deleting Security Context Constraints

To delete an SCC:

----
$ oc delete scc <scc_name>
----

[NOTE]
====
If you delete a default SCC, it will be regenerated upon restart.
====

[[updating-security-context-constraints]]

== Updating Security Context Constraints

To update an existing SCC:

----
$ oc edit scc <scc_name>
----

[NOTE]
====
In order to preserve customized SCCs during upgrades, do not edit settings on
the default SCCs other than priority, users, and groups.
====

[[example-security-context-constraints]]
=== Example Security Context Constraints Settings

.Without Explicit runAsUser Setting
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: security-context-demo
spec:
  securityContext: <1>
  containers:
  - name: sec-ctx-demo
    image: gcr.io/google-samples/node-hello:1.0
----
<1> When a container or pod does not request a user ID under which it should be run,
the effective UID depends on the SCC that emits this pod. Because restricted SCC
is granted to all authenticated users by default, it will be available to all
users and service accounts and used in most cases. The restricted SCC uses
`MustRunAsRange` strategy for constraining and defaulting the possible values of
the `securityContext.runAsUser` field. The admission plug-in will look for the
`openshift.io/sa.scc.uid-range` annotation on the current project to populate
range fields, as it does not provide this range. In the end, a container will
have `runAsUser` equal to the first value of the range that is
hard to predict because every project has different ranges. See
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#understanding-pre-allocated-values-and-security-context-constraints[Understanding
Pre-allocated Values and Security Context Constraints] for more information.

.With Explicit runAsUser Setting
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: security-context-demo
spec:
  securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000 <1>
  containers:
    - name: sec-ctx-demo
      image: gcr.io/google-samples/node-hello:1.0
----
<1> A container or pod that requests a specific user ID will be accepted by
{product-title} only when a service account or a user is granted access to a SCC
that allows such a user ID. The SCC can allow arbitrary IDs, an ID that falls
into a range, or the exact user ID specific to the request.

This works with SELinux, fsGroup, and Supplemental Groups. See
xref:../install_config/persistent_storage/pod_security_context.adoc#install-config-persistent-storage-pod-security-context[Volume
Security] for more information.

[[updating-the-default-security-context-constraints]]
== Updating the Default Security Context Constraints

Default SCCs will be created when the master is started if they are missing. To reset SCCs
to defaults, or update existing SCCs to new default definitions after an upgrade you may:

. Delete any SCC you would like to be reset and let it be recreated by restarting the master
. Use the `oc adm policy reconcile-sccs` command

The `oc adm policy reconcile-sccs` command will set all SCC policies to the default
values but retain any additional users, groups, labels, and annotations as well as priorities you
may have already set. To view which SCCs will be changed you may run the command with no options or
by specifying your preferred output with the `-o <format>` option.

After reviewing it is recommended that you back up your existing SCCs and then
use the `--confirm` option to persist the data.

[NOTE]
====
If you would like to reset priorities and grants, use the
`--additive-only=false` option.
====

[NOTE]
====
If you have customized settings other than priority, users, groups, labels, or annotations in an
SCC, you will lose those settings when you reconcile.
====

[[how-do-i]]
== How Do I?

The following describe common scenarios and procedures using SCCs.

[[grant-access-to-the-privileged-scc]]

=== Grant Access to the Privileged SCC

In some cases, an administrator might want to allow users or groups outside the
administrator group access to create more _privileged pods_. To do so, you can:

. Determine the user or group you would like to have access to the SCC.
+
[WARNING]
====
Granting access to a user only works when the user directly creates a pod. For
pods created on behalf of a user, **in most cases** by the system itself, **access
should be given to a service account** under which related controller is operated
upon. Examples of resources that create pods on behalf of a user are
Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, etc.
====

. Run:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> <user_name>
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group <scc_name> <group_name>
----
+
For example, to allow the *e2e-user* access to the *privileged* SCC, run:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged e2e-user
----

. Modify `SecurityContext` of a container to request a privileged mode.

[[grant-a-service-account-access-to-the-privileged-scc]]

=== Grant a Service Account Access to the Privileged SCC

First, create a xref:../dev_guide/service_accounts.adoc#dev-guide-service-accounts[service account].
For example, to create service account `mysvcacct` in project `myproject`:

----
$ oc create serviceaccount mysvcacct -n myproject
----

Then, add the service account to the `privileged` SCC.

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user privileged system:serviceaccount:myproject:mysvcacct
----

Then, ensure that the resource is being created on behalf of the service
account. To do so, set the `spec.serviceAccountName` field to a service account
name. Leaving the service account name blank will result in the `default`
service account being used.

Then, ensure that at least one of the pod's containers is requesting a
privileged mode in the security context.

[[enable-images-to-run-with-user-in-the-dockerfile]]

=== Enable Images to Run with USER in the Dockerfile

To relax the security in your cluster so that images are not forced to run as a
pre-allocated UID, without granting everyone access to the *privileged* SCC:

. Grant all authenticated users access to the *anyuid* SCC:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group anyuid system:authenticated
----

[WARNING]
====
This allows images to run as the root UID if no *USER* is specified in the
*_Dockerfile_*.
====

[[enable-dockerhub-images-that-require-root]]

=== Enable Container Images that Require Root

Some container images (examples: `postgres` and `redis`) require root access and
have certain expectations about how volumes are owned.  For these images, add
the service account to the `anyuid` SCC.

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid system:serviceaccount:myproject:mysvcacct
----

[[use-mount-host-on-the-registry]]

=== Use --mount-host on the Registry

It is recommended that
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/storage.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-storage[persistent storage] using
`*PersistentVolume*` and `*PersistentVolumeClaim*` objects be used for
xref:../install_config/registry/index.adoc#install-config-registry-overview[registry deployments]. If
you are testing and would like to instead use the `oc adm registry` command with
the `--mount-host` option, you must first create a new
xref:service_accounts.adoc#admin-guide-service-accounts[service account] for the registry and add it to the
*privileged* SCC. See the
xref:../install_config/registry/deploy_registry_existing_clusters.adoc#storage-for-the-registry[Administrator
Guide] for full instructions.

=== Provide Additional Capabilities

In some cases, an image may require capabilities that Docker does not provide
out of the box. You can provide the ability to request additional capabilities
in the pod specification which will be validated against an SCC.

[IMPORTANT]
====
This allows images to run with elevated capabilities and should be used only if
necessary. You should not edit the default *restricted* SCC to enable additional
capabilities.
====

When used in conjunction with a non-root user, you must also ensure that the
file that requires the additional capability is granted the capabilities using
the `setcap` command. For example, in the *_Dockerfile_* of the image:

----
setcap cap_net_raw,cap_net_admin+p /usr/bin/ping
----

Further, if a capability is provided by default in Docker, you do not need to
modify the pod specification to request it. For example, `*NET_RAW*` is provided
by default and capabilities should already be set on `*ping*`, therefore no
special steps should be required to run `*ping*`.

To provide additional capabilities:

. Create a new SCC

. Add the allowed capability using the `*allowedCapabilities*` field.

. When creating the pod, request the capability in the
`*securityContext.capabilities.add*` field.

[[modify-cluster-default-behavior]]
=== Modify Cluster Default Behavior

When you grant access to the *anyuid* SCC for everyone, your cluster:

* Does not pre-allocate UIDs
* Allows containers to run as any user
* Prevents privileged containers

----
 $ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group anyuid system:authenticated
----

To modify your cluster so that it does not pre-allocate UIDs and does not allow
containers to run as root, grant access to the *nonroot* SCC for everyone:

----
 $ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group nonroot system:authenticated
----

[WARNING]
====
Be very careful with any modifications that have a cluster-wide impact. When
you grant an SCC to all authenticated users, as in the previous example, or
modify an SCC that applies to all users, such as the *restricted* SCC, it also
affects Kubernetes and {product-title} components, including the web console
and integrated docker registry. Changes made with these SCCs can cause these
components to stop functioning.

Instead, create a custom SCC and target it to only specific users or
groups. This way potential issues are confined to the affected users or groups
and do not impact critical cluster components.
====

[[use-the-hostpath-volume-plugin]]

=== Use the hostPath Volume Plug-in

To relax the security in your cluster so that pods are allowed to use the
`hostPath` volume plug-in without granting everyone access to more privileged
SCCs such as *privileged*, *hostaccess*, or *hostmount-anyuid*, perform the
following actions:

. xref:creating-new-security-context-constraints[Create a new SCC] named `hostpath`

. Set the `*allowHostDirVolumePlugin*` parameter to `true` for the new SCC:
+
----
$ oc patch scc hostpath -p '{"allowHostDirVolumePlugin": true}'
----

. Grant access to this SCC to all users:
+
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group hostpath system:authenticated
----

Now, all the pods that request `hostPath` volumes are admitted by the
`hostpath` SCC.

=== Ensure That Admission Attempts to Use a Specific SCC First

You may control the sort ordering of SCCs in admission by setting the `Priority`
field of the SCCs. See the
xref:../architecture/additional_concepts/authorization.adoc#scc-prioritization[SCC
Prioritization] section for more information on sorting.

[[add-scc-to-user-group-project]]
=== Add an SCC to a User, Group, or Project

Before adding an SCC to a user or group, you can first use the `scc-review`
option to check if the user or group can create a pod. See the
xref:../dev_guide/authorization.adoc#dev-guide-authorization[Authorization]
topic for more information.

SCCs are not granted directly to a project. Instead, you add a service account
to an SCC and either specify the service account name on your pod or, when
unspecified, run as the `default` service account.

To add an SCC to a user:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> <user_name>
----

To add an SCC to a service account:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> \
    system:serviceaccount:<serviceaccount_namespace>:<serviceaccount_name>
----

If you are currently in the project to which the service account belongs, you
can use the `-z` flag and just specify the `<serviceaccount_name>`.

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user <scc_name> -z <serviceaccount_name>
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
Usage of the `-z` flag as described above is highly recommended, as it helps
prevent typos and ensures that access is granted only to the specified service
account. If not in the project, use the `-n` option to indicate the project
namespace it applies to.
====

To add an SCC to a group:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group <scc_name> <group_name>
----

To add an SCC to all service accounts in a namespace:

----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-group <scc_name> \
    system:serviceaccounts:<serviceaccount_namespace>
----
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
