networking/configuring-ptp.adoc, before:

[id="configuring-ptp"]
= Configuring PTP hardware
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: configuring-ptp

toc::[]

:FeatureName: Precision Time Protocol (PTP) hardware
include::modules/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="about-using-ptp-hardware"]
== About PTP hardware

{product-title} includes the capability to use Precision Time Protocol (PTP)hardware on your nodes.
You can configure linuxptp services on nodes in your cluster that have PTP-capable hardware.

[NOTE]
====
The PTP Operator works with PTP-capable devices on clusters provisioned only on bare metal infrastructure.
====

You can use the {product-title} console to install PTP by deploying the PTP Operator. The PTP Operator creates and manages the linuxptp services. The Operator provides the following features:

* Discovery of the PTP-capable devices in a cluster.
* Management of the configuration of linuxptp services.

include::modules/nw-ptp-device-discovery.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/nw-ptp-installing-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/nw-ptp-configuring-linuxptp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

Updating TP notice for PTP -  suport for ordinary clock only

networking/configuring-ptp.adoc, after:

[id="configuring-ptp"]
= Configuring PTP hardware
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: configuring-ptp

toc::[]

[NOTE]
====
PTP hardware with ordinary clock is generally available and fully supported in {product-title} {product-version}.
====

[id="about-using-ptp-hardware"]
== About PTP hardware

{product-title} includes the capability to use Precision Time Protocol (PTP) hardware on your nodes.
You can configure linuxptp services on nodes in your cluster that have PTP-capable hardware.

[NOTE]
====
The PTP Operator works with PTP-capable devices on clusters provisioned only on bare-metal infrastructure.
====

You can use the {product-title} console to install PTP by deploying the PTP Operator. The PTP Operator creates and manages the `linuxptp` services. The Operator provides the following features:

* Discovery of the PTP-capable devices in a cluster.
* Management of the configuration of `linuxptp` services.

include::modules/nw-ptp-device-discovery.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/nw-ptp-installing-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/nw-ptp-configuring-linuxptp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
