_attributes/common-attributes.adoc, before:

// The {product-title} attribute provides the context-sensitive name of the relevant OpenShift distribution, for example, "OpenShift Container Platform" or "OKD". The {product-version} attribute provides the product version relative to the distribution, for example "4.9".
// {product-title} and {product-version} are parsed when AsciiBinder queries the _distro_map.yml file in relation to the base branch of a pull request.
// See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#product-name-and-version for more information on this topic.
// Other common attributes are defined in the following lines:
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:imagesdir: images
:prewrap!:
:op-system-first: Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)
:op-system: RHCOS
:op-system-lowercase: rhcos
:op-system-base: RHEL
:op-system-base-full: Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
:op-system-version: 8.x
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:op-system-first: Fedora CoreOS (FCOS)
:op-system: FCOS
:op-system-lowercase: fcos
:op-system-base: Fedora
:op-system-base-full: Fedora
:op-system-version: 35
endif::[]
:tsb-name: Template Service Broker
:kebab: image:kebab.png[title="Options menu"]
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
:rh-openstack-first: Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP)
:rh-openstack: RHOSP
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:rh-openstack-first: OpenStack
:rh-openstack: OpenStack
endif::openshift-origin[]
:ai-full: Assisted Installer
:ai-version: 2.3
:cluster-manager-first: Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager
:cluster-manager: OpenShift Cluster Manager
:cluster-manager-url: link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console]
:cluster-manager-url-pull: link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]
:insights-advisor-url: link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/insights/advisor/[Insights Advisor]
:hybrid-console: Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console
:hybrid-console-second: Hybrid Cloud Console
:rh-storage-first: Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation
:rh-storage: OpenShift Data Foundation
:rh-rhacm-first: Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (RHACM)
:rh-rhacm: RHACM
:rh-rhacm-version: 2.5
:sandboxed-containers-first: OpenShift sandboxed containers
:sandboxed-containers-operator: OpenShift sandboxed containers Operator
:sandboxed-containers-version: 1.3
:sandboxed-containers-version-z: 1.3.1
:sandboxed-containers-legacy-version: 1.3.0
:cert-manager-operator: cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
:secondary-scheduler-operator-full: Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
:secondary-scheduler-operator: Secondary Scheduler Operator
:rh-virtualization-first: Red Hat Virtualization (RHV)
:rh-virtualization: RHV
:rh-virtualization-engine-name: Manager
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:rh-virtualization-first: oVirt
:rh-virtualization: oVirt
:rh-virtualization-engine-name: Engine
endif::[]
// Backup and restore
:velero-domain: velero.io
:velero-version: 1.9
:launch: image:app-launcher.png[title="Application Launcher"]
:mtc-short: MTC
:mtc-full: Migration Toolkit for Containers
:mtc-version: 1.7
:mtc-version-z: 1.7
// builds (Valid only in 4.11 and later)
:builds-v2title: Builds for Red Hat OpenShift
:builds-v2shortname: OpenShift Builds v2
:builds-v1shortname: OpenShift Builds v1
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:builds-v2title: Shipwright
:builds-v2shortname: Shipwright
:builds-v1shortname: Builds v1
endif::[]
//gitops
:gitops-title: Red Hat OpenShift GitOps
:gitops-shortname: GitOps
:gitops-ver: 1.1
:rh-app-icon: image:red-hat-applications-menu-icon.jpg[title="Red Hat applications"]
//pipelines
:pipelines-title: Red Hat OpenShift Pipelines
:pipelines-shortname: Pipelines
:pipelines-ver: pipelines-1.8
:tekton-chains: Tekton Chains
:tekton-hub: Tekton Hub
:pac: Pipelines as Code
//odo
:odo-title: odo
//alibaba cloud
:alibaba: Alibaba Cloud
//OpenShift Kubernetes Engine
:oke: OpenShift Kubernetes Engine
//OpenShift Platform Plus
:opp: OpenShift Platform Plus
//openshift virtualization (cnv)
:VirtProductName: OpenShift Virtualization
:VirtVersion: 4.11
:KubeVirtVersion: v0.53.2
:HCOVersion: 4.11.1
:delete: image:delete.png[title="Delete"]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:VirtProductName: OKD Virtualization
endif::[]
//distributed tracing
:DTProductName: Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing
:DTShortName: distributed tracing
:DTProductVersion: 2.7
:JaegerName: Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform
:JaegerShortName: distributed tracing platform
:JaegerVersion: 1.39.0
:OTELName: Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing data collection
:OTELShortName: distributed tracing data collection
:OTELVersion: 0.63.1
//logging
:logging-title: logging subsystem for Red Hat OpenShift
:logging-title-uc: Logging subsystem for Red Hat OpenShift
:logging: logging subsystem
:logging-uc: Logging subsystem
//serverless
:ServerlessProductName: OpenShift Serverless
:ServerlessProductShortName: Serverless
:ServerlessOperatorName: OpenShift Serverless Operator
:FunctionsProductName: OpenShift Serverless Functions
//service mesh v2
:product-dedicated: Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated
:SMProductName: Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh
:SMProductShortName: Service Mesh
:SMProductVersion: 2.3
:MaistraVersion: 2.3
//Service Mesh v1
:SMProductVersion1x: 1.1.18.2
//Windows containers
:productwinc: Red Hat OpenShift support for Windows Containers
// IBM zSystems
:ibmzProductName: IBM Z
// Red Hat Quay Container Security Operator
:rhq-cso: Red Hat Quay Container Security Operator
:sno: single-node OpenShift
:sno-caps: Single-node OpenShift
//TALO and Redfish events Operators
:cgu-operator-first: Topology Aware Lifecycle Manager (TALM)
:cgu-operator-full: Topology Aware Lifecycle Manager
:cgu-operator: TALM
:redfish-operator: Bare Metal Event Relay
//Formerly known as CodeReady Containers and CodeReady Workspaces
:openshift-local-productname: Red Hat OpenShift Local
:openshift-dev-spaces-productname: Red Hat OpenShift Dev Spaces

Commit message:

experiment - known issues
Signed-off-by: Avital Pinnick <apinnick@redhat.com>

_attributes/common-attributes.adoc, after:

// The {product-title} attribute provides the context-sensitive name of the relevant OpenShift distribution, for example, "OpenShift Container Platform" or "OKD". The {product-version} attribute provides the product version relative to the distribution, for example "4.9".
// {product-title} and {product-version} are parsed when AsciiBinder queries the _distro_map.yml file in relation to the base branch of a pull request.
// See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#product-name-and-version for more information on this topic.
// Other common attributes are defined in the following lines:
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:imagesdir: images
:prewrap!:
:op-system-first: Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS)
:op-system: RHCOS
:op-system-lowercase: rhcos
:op-system-base: RHEL
:op-system-base-full: Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
:op-system-version: 8.x
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:op-system-first: Fedora CoreOS (FCOS)
:op-system: FCOS
:op-system-lowercase: fcos
:op-system-base: Fedora
:op-system-base-full: Fedora
:op-system-version: 35
endif::[]
:tsb-name: Template Service Broker
:kebab: image:kebab.png[title="Options menu"]
ifndef::openshift-origin[]
:rh-openstack-first: Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP)
:rh-openstack: RHOSP
endif::openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:rh-openstack-first: OpenStack
:rh-openstack: OpenStack
endif::openshift-origin[]
:ai-full: Assisted Installer
:ai-version: 2.3
:cluster-manager-first: Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager
:cluster-manager: OpenShift Cluster Manager
:cluster-manager-url: link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift[OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console]
:cluster-manager-url-pull: link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret from the Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Manager]
:insights-advisor-url: link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/insights/advisor/[Insights Advisor]
:hybrid-console: Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console
:hybrid-console-second: Hybrid Cloud Console
:rh-storage-first: Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation
:rh-storage: OpenShift Data Foundation
:rh-rhacm-first: Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management (RHACM)
:rh-rhacm: RHACM
:rh-rhacm-version: 2.5
:sandboxed-containers-first: OpenShift sandboxed containers
:sandboxed-containers-operator: OpenShift sandboxed containers Operator
:sandboxed-containers-version: 1.3
:sandboxed-containers-version-z: 1.3.1
:sandboxed-containers-legacy-version: 1.3.0
:cert-manager-operator: cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
:secondary-scheduler-operator-full: Secondary Scheduler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift
:secondary-scheduler-operator: Secondary Scheduler Operator
:rh-virtualization-first: Red Hat Virtualization (RHV)
:rh-virtualization: RHV
:rh-virtualization-engine-name: Manager
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:rh-virtualization-first: oVirt
:rh-virtualization: oVirt
:rh-virtualization-engine-name: Engine
endif::[]
// Backup and restore
:velero-domain: velero.io
:velero-version: 1.9
:launch: image:app-launcher.png[title="Application Launcher"]
:mtc-short: MTC
:mtc-full: Migration Toolkit for Containers
:mtc-version: 1.7
:mtc-version-z: 1.7
// builds (Valid only in 4.11 and later)
:builds-v2title: Builds for Red Hat OpenShift
:builds-v2shortname: OpenShift Builds v2
:builds-v1shortname: OpenShift Builds v1
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:builds-v2title: Shipwright
:builds-v2shortname: Shipwright
:builds-v1shortname: Builds v1
endif::[]
//gitops
:gitops-title: Red Hat OpenShift GitOps
:gitops-shortname: GitOps
:gitops-ver: 1.1
:rh-app-icon: image:red-hat-applications-menu-icon.jpg[title="Red Hat applications"]
//pipelines
:pipelines-title: Red Hat OpenShift Pipelines
:pipelines-shortname: Pipelines
:pipelines-ver: pipelines-1.8
:tekton-chains: Tekton Chains
:tekton-hub: Tekton Hub
:pac: Pipelines as Code
//odo
:odo-title: odo
//alibaba cloud
:alibaba: Alibaba Cloud
//OpenShift Kubernetes Engine
:oke: OpenShift Kubernetes Engine
//OpenShift Platform Plus
:opp: OpenShift Platform Plus
//openshift virtualization (cnv)
:VirtProductName: OpenShift Virtualization
:VirtVersion: 4.11
:KubeVirtVersion: v0.53.2
:HCOVersion: 4.11.1
:delete: image:delete.png[title="Delete"]
:virt-known-issue: image:icon-alert.svg[title="This is a known issue. See the current release notes for details.",25]
ifdef::openshift-origin[]
:VirtProductName: OKD Virtualization
endif::[]
//distributed tracing
:DTProductName: Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing
:DTShortName: distributed tracing
:DTProductVersion: 2.7
:JaegerName: Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform
:JaegerShortName: distributed tracing platform
:JaegerVersion: 1.39.0
:OTELName: Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing data collection
:OTELShortName: distributed tracing data collection
:OTELVersion: 0.63.1
//logging
:logging-title: logging subsystem for Red Hat OpenShift
:logging-title-uc: Logging subsystem for Red Hat OpenShift
:logging: logging subsystem
:logging-uc: Logging subsystem
//serverless
:ServerlessProductName: OpenShift Serverless
:ServerlessProductShortName: Serverless
:ServerlessOperatorName: OpenShift Serverless Operator
:FunctionsProductName: OpenShift Serverless Functions
//service mesh v2
:product-dedicated: Red Hat OpenShift Dedicated
:SMProductName: Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh
:SMProductShortName: Service Mesh
:SMProductVersion: 2.3
:MaistraVersion: 2.3
//Service Mesh v1
:SMProductVersion1x: 1.1.18.2
//Windows containers
:productwinc: Red Hat OpenShift support for Windows Containers
// IBM zSystems
:ibmzProductName: IBM Z
// Red Hat Quay Container Security Operator
:rhq-cso: Red Hat Quay Container Security Operator
:sno: single-node OpenShift
:sno-caps: Single-node OpenShift
//TALO and Redfish events Operators
:cgu-operator-first: Topology Aware Lifecycle Manager (TALM)
:cgu-operator-full: Topology Aware Lifecycle Manager
:cgu-operator: TALM
:redfish-operator: Bare Metal Event Relay
//Formerly known as CodeReady Containers and CodeReady Workspaces
:openshift-local-productname: Red Hat OpenShift Local
:openshift-dev-spaces-productname: Red Hat OpenShift Dev Spaces
