virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-running-cluster-checkups"]
= {VirtProductName} cluster checkup framework
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: virt-running-cluster-checkups

toc::[]

{VirtProductName} includes the following predefined checkups that can be used for cluster maintenance and troubleshooting:

xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc#virt-measuring-latency-vm-secondary-network_virt-running-cluster-checkups[Latency checkup]::
Verifies network connectivity and measures latency between two virtual machines (VMs) that are attached to a secondary network interface.
xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc#virt-checking-cluster-dpdk-readiness_virt-running-cluster-checkups[DPDK checkup]::
Verifies that a node can run a VM with a Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) workload with zero packet loss.
xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc#virt-checking-storage-configuration_virt-running-cluster-checkups[Storage checkup]::
Verifies if the cluster storage is optimally configured for {VirtProductName}.

:FeatureName: The {VirtProductName} cluster checkup framework
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

include::modules/virt-about-cluster-checkup-framework.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/virt-measuring-latency-vm-secondary-network.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-checking-cluster-dpdk-readiness.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-dpdk-config-map-parameters.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/virt-building-vm-containerdisk-image.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/virt-checking-storage-configuration.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_running-cluster-checkups"]
== Additional resources
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge[Attaching a virtual machine to multiple networks]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
// Hiding pending resolution of	OSDOCS-3691
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../networking/hardware_networks/using-dpdk-and-rdma.adoc#example-vf-use-in-dpdk-mode-intel_using-dpdk-and-rdma[Using a virtual function in DPDK mode with an Intel NIC]
* xref:../../networking/hardware_networks/using-dpdk-and-rdma.adoc#nw-example-dpdk-line-rate_using-dpdk-and-rdma[Using SR-IOV and the Node Tuning Operator to achieve a DPDK line rate]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/installing-composer_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image[Installing image builder]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/253273[How to register and subscribe a RHEL system to the Red Hat Customer Portal using Red Hat Subscription Manager]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]

Commit message:

[enterprise-4.15] #CNV-36463: web console checkups

virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="virt-running-cluster-checkups"]
= {VirtProductName} cluster checkup framework
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: virt-running-cluster-checkups

toc::[]

{VirtProductName} includes the following predefined checkups that can be used for cluster maintenance and troubleshooting:

xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc#virt-measuring-latency-vm-secondary-network_virt-running-cluster-checkups[Latency checkup]::
Verifies network connectivity and measures latency between two virtual machines (VMs) that are attached to a secondary network interface.
xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc#virt-checking-cluster-dpdk-readiness_virt-running-cluster-checkups[DPDK checkup]::
Verifies that a node can run a VM with a Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) workload with zero packet loss.
xref:../../virt/monitoring/virt-running-cluster-checkups.adoc#virt-checking-storage-configuration_virt-running-cluster-checkups[Storage checkup]::
Verifies if the cluster storage is optimally configured for {VirtProductName}.

:FeatureName: The {VirtProductName} cluster checkup framework
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

include::modules/virt-about-cluster-checkup-framework.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Running cluster checkups in the web console

Use the web console to run a latency or storage checkup on a cluster.

Use the following procedures the first time you run a latency checkup and storage checkup in the web console. For additional checkups, click *Run checkup* on either checkup tab, and select the appropriate checkup from the drop down menu.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Before you run a latency checkup, you must first xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge[create a bridge interface] on the cluster nodes to connect the VM's secondary interface to any interface on the node. If you do not create a bridge interface, the VMs will not start and the job will fail.
====

include::modules/virt-latency-checkup-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-storage-checkup-web-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-measuring-latency-vm-secondary-network.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/virt-checking-cluster-dpdk-readiness.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/virt-dpdk-config-map-parameters.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/virt-building-vm-containerdisk-image.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/virt-checking-storage-configuration.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_running-cluster-checkups"]
== Additional resources
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge.adoc#virt-connecting-vm-to-linux-bridge[Attaching a virtual machine to multiple networks]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
// Hiding pending resolution of	OSDOCS-3691
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* xref:../../networking/hardware_networks/using-dpdk-and-rdma.adoc#example-vf-use-in-dpdk-mode-intel_using-dpdk-and-rdma[Using a virtual function in DPDK mode with an Intel NIC]
* xref:../../networking/hardware_networks/using-dpdk-and-rdma.adoc#nw-example-dpdk-line-rate_using-dpdk-and-rdma[Using SR-IOV and the Node Tuning Operator to achieve a DPDK line rate]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/installing-composer_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image[Installing image builder]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/253273[How to register and subscribe a RHEL system to the Red Hat Customer Portal using Red Hat Subscription Manager]
endif::openshift-rosa,openshift-dedicated[]
