[[scaling-performance-optimizing-ephemeral-storage]]
= Optimizing Ephemeral Storage
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:

toc::[]

*This page only applies if the Ephemeral Storage tech preview in
{product-title} 3.10 has been enabled.  This is disabled by default;
administrators may enable it via the instructions in
xref:../install_config/configuring_ephemeral.adoc[Configuring for
Ephemeral Storage].*

Ephemeral storage is used by pods for their internal operation, such
as for temporary files.  The lifetime of this ephemeral storage does
not extend beyond the life of the individual pod, and this ephemeral
storage cannot be shared across pods.

Prior to {product-title} 3.10, ephemeral local storage was already
exposed to pods via the container’s writable layer, logs directory,
and EmptyDir volumes.  There are many issues related to the lack of
local storage accounting and isolation, including:

- Pods do not know how much local storage is available to them.

- Pods cannot request "guaranteed" local storage.

- Local storage is a "best effort" resource.

- Pods can get evicted due to other pods filling up the local storage,
after which no new pods will be admitted until sufficient storage has
been reclaimed.

Ephemeral storage is still exposed to pods in the same way, but there
are new methods for implementing requests and limits on pods'
consumption of ephemeral storage.

Note that management of container logs apply only if you are using
CRI-O as the container runtime and use file-based logging.

It is important to understand that ephemeral storage is shared among
all pods in the system, and that {product-title} does not provide any
mechanism for guaranteeing any level of service beyond the requests
and limits established by the administrator and users.  For example,
ephemeral storage does not provide any guarantees of throughput, I/O
operations/second, or any other measure of storage performance.

== General Storage Guidelines

A node's local storage can be broken into primary and secondary
partitions.  Primary partitions are the only ones that can be used for
ephemeral local storage.  There are two supported primary partitions:

- *Root* -- This partition holds the kubelet’s root directory
(`/var/lib/kubelet` by default) and `/var/log` directory.  This
partition may be shared between user pods, OS and {product-title}
system daemons.  This partition can be consumed by pods via EmptyDir
volumes, container logs, image layers and container writable layers.
{product-title} will manage shared access and isolation of this
partition.

- *Runtime* -- This is an optional partition which runtimes can use
for overlay filesystems.  {product-title} will attempt to identify and
provide shared access along with isolation to this partition.
Container image layers and writable layers are stored here.  If the
runtime partition exists, the `root` partition will not hold any image
layer or writable layers.

====
