admin_guide/scheduling/pod_placement.adoc, before:

[[controlling-pod-placement]]
= Controlling Pod Placement
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Overview

As a cluster administrator, you can set a policy to prevent application
developers with certain roles from targeting specific nodes when scheduling
pods.

The Pod Node Constraints admission controller ensures that pods 
are deployed onto only specified node hosts using labels
and prevents users without a specific role from using the 
`nodeSelector` field to schedule pods.

[[constraining-pod-placement-labels]]
== Constraining Pod Placement Using Node Name

Use the Pod Node Constraints admission controller to ensure a pod 
is deployed onto only a specified node host by assigning it a label
and specifying this in the `nodeName` setting in a pod configuration.

. Ensure you have the desired labels
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
(see xref:../../admin_guide/manage_nodes.adoc#updating-labels-on-nodes[Updating
Labels on Nodes] for details)
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
(request changes by opening a support case on the
https://access.redhat.com/support/[Red Hat Customer Portal])
endif::openshift-dedicated[]
and xref:../../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#using-node-selectors[node selector]
set up in your environment.
+
For example, make sure that your pod configuration features the `nodeName`
value indicating the desired label:
+
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
spec:
  nodeName: <value>
----

. Modify the master configuration file, *_/etc/origin/master/master-config.yaml_*, to add `PodNodeConstraints` to the `admissionConfig` section:
+
----
...
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeConstraints:
      configuration:
        apiversion: v1
        kind: PodNodeConstraintsConfig
...
----

. Restart {product-title} for the changes to take effect.
+
----
# master-restart controllers
----

[[constraining-pod-placement-nodeselector]]
== Constraining Pod Placement Using a Node Selector

Using xref:../../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#using-node-selectors[node selectors], 
you can ensure that pods are only placed onto nodes with specific labels. As a cluster administrator, you can
use the Pod Node Constraints admission controller to set a policy that prevents users without the *pods/binding* permission 
from using node selectors to schedule pods.

The `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist` field of a master configuration file gives you
control over the labels that certain roles can specify in a pod configuration's
`nodeSelector` field. Users, service accounts, and groups that have the
*pods/binding* permission xref:../../admin_guide/manage_rbac.adoc#admin-guide-manage-rbac[role]
 can specify any node selector. Those without the
*pods/binding* permission are prohibited from setting a `nodeSelector` for any
label that appears in `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist`.

For example, an {product-title} cluster might consist of five data
centers spread across two regions. In the U.S., *us-east*, *us-central*, and
*us-west*; and in the Asia-Pacific region (APAC), *apac-east* and *apac-west*.
Each node in each geographical region is labeled accordingly. For example,
`region: us-east`.

[NOTE]
====
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
See xref:../../admin_guide/manage_nodes.adoc#updating-labels-on-nodes[Updating
Labels on Nodes] for details on assigning labels.
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
(request changes by opening a support case on the
https://access.redhat.com/support/[Red Hat Customer Portal])
endif::openshift-dedicated[]
====

As a cluster administrator, you can create an infrastructure where application
developers should be deploying pods only onto the nodes closest to their
geographical location. You can create a node selector, grouping the U.S. data centers into `superregion: us` and the APAC
data centers into `superregion: apac`.

To maintain an even loading of resources per data center, you can add the
desired `region` to the `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist` section of a master
configuration. Then, whenever a developer located in the U.S. creates a pod, it
is deployed onto a node in one of the regions with the `superregion: us` label.
If the developer tries to target a specific region for their pod (for example,
`region: us-east`), they receive an error. If they try again, without the
node selector on their pod, it can still be deployed onto the region they tried
to target, because `superregion: us` is set as the project-level node selector,
and nodes labeled `region: us-east` are also labeled `superregion: us`.


. Ensure you have the desired labels
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
(see xref:../../admin_guide/manage_nodes.adoc#updating-labels-on-nodes[Updating
Labels on Nodes] for details)
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
(request changes by opening a support case on the
https://access.redhat.com/support/[Red Hat Customer Portal])
endif::openshift-dedicated[]
and xref:../../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#using-node-selectors[node selector]
set up in your environment.
//tag::node-selectors[]
+
For example, make sure that your pod configuration features the `nodeSelector`
value indicating the desired label:
+
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    <key>: <value>
...
----

. Modify the master configuration file, *_/etc/origin/master/master-config.yaml_*, to add `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist` to the `admissionConfig` section with
the labels that are assigned to the node hosts you want to deny pod placement:
+
----
...
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeConstraints:
      configuration:
        apiversion: v1
        kind: PodNodeConstraintsConfig
        nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist:
          - kubernetes.io/hostname
          - <label>
...
----

. Restart {product-title} for the changes to take effect.
+
----
# master-restart controllers
----

//end::node-selectors[]

[[controlling-pod-placement-projects]]
== Control Pod Placement to Projects

The Pod Node Selector admission controller allows you to force pods onto nodes associated with a specific project and prevent pods from being scheduled in those nodes.

The Pod Node Selector admission controller determines where a pod can be placed using xref:../../architecture/core_concepts/pods_and_services.adoc#labels[labels on projects] and node selectors specified in pods. A new pod will be placed on a node associated with a project  only if the node selectors in the pod match the labels in the project.

After the pod is created, the node selectors are merged into the pod so that the pod specification includes the labels originally included in the specification and any new labels from the node selectors. The example below illustrates the merging effect.

The Pod Node Selector admission controller also allows you to create a list of labels that are permitted in a specific project. This list acts as a _whitelist_ that lets developers know what labels are acceptable to use in a project and gives administrators greater control over labeling in a cluster.

To activate the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller: 

. Configure the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller and whitelist, using one of the following methods: 

** Add the following to the master configuration file, *_/etc/origin/master/master-config.yaml_*:
+
----
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeSelector:
      configuration:
        podNodeSelectorPluginConfig: <1>
          clusterDefaultNodeSelector: "k3=v3" <2>
          ns1: region=west,env=test,infra=fedora,os=fedora <3>
----
+
<1> Adds the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller plug-in.
<2> Creates default labels for all nodes.
<3> Creates a whitelist of permitted labels in the specified project. Here, the project is `ns1` and the labels are the `key=value` pairs that follow.

** Create a file containing the admission controller information:
+
----
podNodeSelectorPluginConfig:
    clusterDefaultNodeSelector: "k3=v3"
     ns1: region=west,env=test,infra=fedora,os=fedora
----
+
Then, reference the file in the master configuration:
+
----
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeSelector:
      location: <path-to-file>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If a project does not have node selectors specified, the pods associated with that project will be merged using the default node selector (`clusterDefaultNodeSelector`).
====

. Restart {product-title} for the changes to take effect.
+
----
# master-restart controllers
----

. Create a project object that includes the
`scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/node-selector` annotation and labels.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata
  name: ns1
  annotations: 
    scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/node-selector: env=test,infra=fedora <1>
spec: {},
status: {}
----
+
<1> Annotation to create the labels to match the project label selector. Here, the key/value labels are `env=test` and `infra=fedora`.
+
[NOTE]
====
When using the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller, you cannot use `oc adm new-project <project-name>` for setting project node selector. 
When you set the project node selector using the `oc adm new-project myproject --node-selector='type=user-node,region=<region>` command, {product-title} sets 
the `openshift.io/node-selector` annotation, which is processed by *NodeEnv* admission plugin.
====

. Create a pod specification that includes the labels in the node selector, for example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    name: hello-pod
  name: hello-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: "docker.io/ocpqe/hello-pod:latest"
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      name: hello-pod
      ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
      resources: {}
      securityContext:
        capabilities: {}
        privileged: false
      terminationMessagePath: /dev/termination-log
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
  restartPolicy: Always
  nodeSelector: <1>
    env: test
    os: fedora
  serviceAccount: ""
status: {}
----
+
<1> Node selectors to match project labels.


. Create the pod in the project:
+
----
# oc create -f pod.yaml --namespace=ns1
----

. Check that the node selector labels were added to the pod configuration:
+
----
get pod pod1 --namespace=ns1 -o json

nodeSelector": {
 "env": "test",
 "infra": "fedora",
 "os": "fedora"
}
----
+
The node selectors are merged into the pod and the pod should be scheduled in the appropriate project.

If you create a pod with a label that is not specified in the project specification, the pod is not scheduled on the node.

For example, here the label `env: production` is not in any project specification:

----
nodeSelector:
 "env: production"
 "infra": "fedora",
 "os": "fedora"
----

If there is a node that does not have a node selector annotation, the pod will be scheduled there.

Commit message:

BZ1786998 Add master-restart api command

admin_guide/scheduling/pod_placement.adoc, after:

[[controlling-pod-placement]]
= Controlling Pod Placement
{product-author}
{product-version}
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Overview

As a cluster administrator, you can set a policy to prevent application
developers with certain roles from targeting specific nodes when scheduling
pods.

The Pod Node Constraints admission controller ensures that pods
are deployed onto only specified node hosts using labels
and prevents users without a specific role from using the
`nodeSelector` field to schedule pods.

[[constraining-pod-placement-labels]]
== Constraining Pod Placement Using Node Name

Use the Pod Node Constraints admission controller to ensure a pod
is deployed onto only a specified node host by assigning it a label
and specifying this in the `nodeName` setting in a pod configuration.

. Ensure you have the desired labels
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
(see xref:../../admin_guide/manage_nodes.adoc#updating-labels-on-nodes[Updating
Labels on Nodes] for details)
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
(request changes by opening a support case on the
https://access.redhat.com/support/[Red Hat Customer Portal])
endif::openshift-dedicated[]
and xref:../../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#using-node-selectors[node selector]
set up in your environment.
+
For example, make sure that your pod configuration features the `nodeName`
value indicating the desired label:
+
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
spec:
  nodeName: <value>
----

. Modify the master configuration file, *_/etc/origin/master/master-config.yaml_*, to add `PodNodeConstraints` to the `admissionConfig` section:
+
----
...
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeConstraints:
      configuration:
        apiversion: v1
        kind: PodNodeConstraintsConfig
...
----

. Restart {product-title} for the changes to take effect.
+
----
# master-restart api
# master-restart controllers
----

[[constraining-pod-placement-nodeselector]]
== Constraining Pod Placement Using a Node Selector

Using xref:../../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#using-node-selectors[node selectors],
you can ensure that pods are only placed onto nodes with specific labels. As a cluster administrator, you can
use the Pod Node Constraints admission controller to set a policy that prevents users without the *pods/binding* permission
from using node selectors to schedule pods.

The `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist` field of a master configuration file gives you
control over the labels that certain roles can specify in a pod configuration's
`nodeSelector` field. Users, service accounts, and groups that have the
*pods/binding* permission xref:../../admin_guide/manage_rbac.adoc#admin-guide-manage-rbac[role]
 can specify any node selector. Those without the
*pods/binding* permission are prohibited from setting a `nodeSelector` for any
label that appears in `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist`.

For example, an {product-title} cluster might consist of five data
centers spread across two regions. In the U.S., *us-east*, *us-central*, and
*us-west*; and in the Asia-Pacific region (APAC), *apac-east* and *apac-west*.
Each node in each geographical region is labeled accordingly. For example,
`region: us-east`.

[NOTE]
====
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
See xref:../../admin_guide/manage_nodes.adoc#updating-labels-on-nodes[Updating
Labels on Nodes] for details on assigning labels.
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
(request changes by opening a support case on the
https://access.redhat.com/support/[Red Hat Customer Portal])
endif::openshift-dedicated[]
====

As a cluster administrator, you can create an infrastructure where application
developers should be deploying pods only onto the nodes closest to their
geographical location. You can create a node selector, grouping the U.S. data centers into `superregion: us` and the APAC
data centers into `superregion: apac`.

To maintain an even loading of resources per data center, you can add the
desired `region` to the `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist` section of a master
configuration. Then, whenever a developer located in the U.S. creates a pod, it
is deployed onto a node in one of the regions with the `superregion: us` label.
If the developer tries to target a specific region for their pod (for example,
`region: us-east`), they receive an error. If they try again, without the
node selector on their pod, it can still be deployed onto the region they tried
to target, because `superregion: us` is set as the project-level node selector,
and nodes labeled `region: us-east` are also labeled `superregion: us`.


. Ensure you have the desired labels
ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
(see xref:../../admin_guide/manage_nodes.adoc#updating-labels-on-nodes[Updating
Labels on Nodes] for details)
endif::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
ifdef::openshift-dedicated[]
(request changes by opening a support case on the
https://access.redhat.com/support/[Red Hat Customer Portal])
endif::openshift-dedicated[]
and xref:../../admin_guide/managing_projects.adoc#using-node-selectors[node selector]
set up in your environment.
//tag::node-selectors[]
+
For example, make sure that your pod configuration features the `nodeSelector`
value indicating the desired label:
+
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
spec:
  nodeSelector:
    <key>: <value>
...
----

. Modify the master configuration file, *_/etc/origin/master/master-config.yaml_*, to add `nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist` to the `admissionConfig` section with
the labels that are assigned to the node hosts you want to deny pod placement:
+
----
...
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeConstraints:
      configuration:
        apiversion: v1
        kind: PodNodeConstraintsConfig
        nodeSelectorLabelBlacklist:
          - kubernetes.io/hostname
          - <label>
...
----

. Restart {product-title} for the changes to take effect.
+
----
# master-restart api
# master-restart controllers
----

//end::node-selectors[]

[[controlling-pod-placement-projects]]
== Control Pod Placement to Projects

The Pod Node Selector admission controller allows you to force pods onto nodes associated with a specific project and prevent pods from being scheduled in those nodes.

The Pod Node Selector admission controller determines where a pod can be placed using xref:../../architecture/core_concepts/pods_and_services.adoc#labels[labels on projects] and node selectors specified in pods. A new pod will be placed on a node associated with a project  only if the node selectors in the pod match the labels in the project.

After the pod is created, the node selectors are merged into the pod so that the pod specification includes the labels originally included in the specification and any new labels from the node selectors. The example below illustrates the merging effect.

The Pod Node Selector admission controller also allows you to create a list of labels that are permitted in a specific project. This list acts as a _whitelist_ that lets developers know what labels are acceptable to use in a project and gives administrators greater control over labeling in a cluster.

To activate the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller:

. Configure the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller and whitelist, using one of the following methods:

** Add the following to the master configuration file, *_/etc/origin/master/master-config.yaml_*:
+
----
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeSelector:
      configuration:
        podNodeSelectorPluginConfig: <1>
          clusterDefaultNodeSelector: "k3=v3" <2>
          ns1: region=west,env=test,infra=fedora,os=fedora <3>
----
+
<1> Adds the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller plug-in.
<2> Creates default labels for all nodes.
<3> Creates a whitelist of permitted labels in the specified project. Here, the project is `ns1` and the labels are the `key=value` pairs that follow.

** Create a file containing the admission controller information:
+
----
podNodeSelectorPluginConfig:
    clusterDefaultNodeSelector: "k3=v3"
     ns1: region=west,env=test,infra=fedora,os=fedora
----
+
Then, reference the file in the master configuration:
+
----
admissionConfig:
  pluginConfig:
    PodNodeSelector:
      location: <path-to-file>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If a project does not have node selectors specified, the pods associated with that project will be merged using the default node selector (`clusterDefaultNodeSelector`).
====

. Restart {product-title} for the changes to take effect.
+
----
# master-restart api
# master-restart controllers
----

. Create a project object that includes the
`scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/node-selector` annotation and labels.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata
  name: ns1
  annotations:
    scheduler.alpha.kubernetes.io/node-selector: env=test,infra=fedora <1>
spec: {},
status: {}
----
+
<1> Annotation to create the labels to match the project label selector. Here, the key/value labels are `env=test` and `infra=fedora`.
+
[NOTE]
====
When using the *Pod Node Selector* admission controller, you cannot use `oc adm new-project <project-name>` for setting project node selector.
When you set the project node selector using the `oc adm new-project myproject --node-selector='type=user-node,region=<region>` command, {product-title} sets
the `openshift.io/node-selector` annotation, which is processed by *NodeEnv* admission plugin.
====

. Create a pod specification that includes the labels in the node selector, for example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    name: hello-pod
  name: hello-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - image: "docker.io/ocpqe/hello-pod:latest"
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      name: hello-pod
      ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
          protocol: TCP
      resources: {}
      securityContext:
        capabilities: {}
        privileged: false
      terminationMessagePath: /dev/termination-log
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
  restartPolicy: Always
  nodeSelector: <1>
    env: test
    os: fedora
  serviceAccount: ""
status: {}
----
+
<1> Node selectors to match project labels.


. Create the pod in the project:
+
----
# oc create -f pod.yaml --namespace=ns1
----

. Check that the node selector labels were added to the pod configuration:
+
----
get pod pod1 --namespace=ns1 -o json

nodeSelector": {
 "env": "test",
 "infra": "fedora",
 "os": "fedora"
}
----
+
The node selectors are merged into the pod and the pod should be scheduled in the appropriate project.

If you create a pod with a label that is not specified in the project specification, the pod is not scheduled on the node.

For example, here the label `env: production` is not in any project specification:

----
nodeSelector:
 "env: production"
 "infra": "fedora",
 "os": "fedora"
----

If there is a node that does not have a node selector annotation, the pod will be scheduled there.
