storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-manila.adoc, before:

[id="persistent-storage-csi-manila"]
= OpenStack Manila CSI Driver Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-csi-manila

toc::[]

== Overview

{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for the link:https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila[OpenStack Manila] shared file system service.

Familiarity with xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#understanding-persistent-storage[persistent storage] and xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[configuring CSI volumes] is recommended when working with a Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator and driver.

To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Manila storage assets, {product-title} installs the Manila CSI Driver Operator and the Manila CSI driver by default on any OpenStack cluster that has the Manila service enabled.

* The _Manila CSI Driver Operator_ creates the required storage class that is needed to create PVCs for all available Manila share types. The Operator is installed in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

* The _Manila CSI driver_ enables you to create and mount Manila PVs. The driver is installed in the `openshift-manila-csi-driver` namespace.

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-manila-dynamic-provisioning.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources
* xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[Configuring CSI volumes]

Commit message:

adding an admonition for RH support

storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-manila.adoc, after:

[id="persistent-storage-csi-manila"]
= OpenStack Manila CSI Driver Operator
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: persistent-storage-csi-manila

toc::[]

== Overview

{product-title} is capable of provisioning persistent volumes (PVs) using the Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver for the link:https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila[OpenStack Manila] shared file system service.

Familiarity with xref:../../storage/understanding-persistent-storage.adoc#understanding-persistent-storage[persistent storage] and xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[configuring CSI volumes] is recommended when working with a Container Storage Interface (CSI) Operator and driver.

To create CSI-provisioned PVs that mount to Manila storage assets, {product-title} installs the Manila CSI Driver Operator and the Manila CSI driver by default on any OpenStack cluster that has the Manila service enabled.

* The _Manila CSI Driver Operator_ creates the required storage class that is needed to create PVCs for all available Manila share types. The Operator is installed in the `openshift-cluster-csi-drivers` namespace.

* The _Manila CSI driver_ enables you to create and mount Manila PVs. The driver is installed in the `openshift-manila-csi-driver` namespace.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Red Hat requires a support exception to use the link:https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Manila[OpenStack Manila] shared file system service with CephFS, through NFS to serve shares to {product-title} through Manila CSI. For more information, contact Red Hat Support.
====

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-about.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/persistent-storage-csi-manila-dynamic-provisioning.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources
* xref:../../storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi.adoc#persistent-storage-csi[Configuring CSI volumes]
