== What Device Manager Does

Device Manager is a Kubelet feature that provides a mechanism for advertising
specialized node hardware resources with the help of Kubelet plug-ins known as
xref:../dev_guide/device_plugins.adoc#using-device-plugins[device plug-ins].

Any vendor can implement a device plug-in to advertise their specialized
hardware without requiring any upstream code changes.

[IMPORTANT]
====
{product-title} supports the device plug-in API, but the device plug-in
containers are supported by individual vendors.
====

Device Manager advertises devices as *Extended Resources*. User pods can consume
devices, advertised by Device Manager, using the same *Limit/Request* mechanism,
which is used for requesting any other *Extended Resource*.

[[registration]]
=== Registration

Upon start, the
xref:../dev_guide/device_plugins.adoc#using-device-plugins[device plug-in]
registers itself with Device Manager invoking `Register` on the
*_/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/kubelet.sock_* and starts a gRPC service at
*_/var/lib/kubelet/device-plugins/<plugin>.sock_* for serving Device Manager
requests.

[[device-discovery-monitoring]]
=== Device Discovery and Health Monitoring

Device Manager, while processing a new registration request, invokes
`ListAndWatch` remote procedure call (RPC) at the device plug-in service. In
response, Device Manger gets a list of *Device* objects from the plug-in over a
gRPC stream. Device Manager will keep watching on the stream for new updates
from the plug-in. On the plug-in side, the plug-in will also keep the stream
open and whenever there is a change in the state of any of the devices, a new
device list is sent to the Device Manager over the same streaming connection.

[[device-allocation]]
=== Device Allocation

While handling a new pod admission request, Kubelet passes requested `Extended
Resources` to the Device Manager for device allocation. Device Manager checks in
its database to verify if a corresponding plug-in exists or not. If the plug-in exists
and there are free allocatable devices as well as per local cache, `Allocate`
RPC is invoked at that particular device plug-in.

Additionally, device plug-ins can also perform several other device-specific
operations, such as driver installation, device initialization, and device
resets. These functionalities vary from implementation to implementation.
