machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc, before:

[id="creating-infrastructure-machinesets"]
= Creating infrastructure MachineSets
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: creating-infrastructure-machinesets

toc::[]

You can create a MachineSet to host only infrastructure components.
You apply specific Kubernetes labels to these Machines and then
update the infrastructure components to run on only those Machines. These
infrastructure nodes are not counted toward the total number of subscriptions
that are required to run the environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Unlike earlier versions of {product-title}, you cannot move the infrastructure
components to the master Machines. To move the components, you must create a
new MachineSet.
====

include::modules/infrastructure-components.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="creating-infrastructure-machinesets-production"]
== Creating infrastructure MachineSets for production environments

In a production deployment, deploy at least three MachineSets to hold
infrastructure components. Both the logging aggregation solution and
the service mesh deploy Elasticsearch, and Elasticsearch requires three
instances that are installed on different nodes. For high availability, install
deploy these nodes to different availability zones. Since you need different
MachineSets for each availability zone, create at least three MachineSets.

[id="creating-infrastructure-machinesets-clouds"]
=== Creating MachineSets for different clouds

Use the sample MachineSet for your cloud.

include::modules/machineset-yaml-aws.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/machineset-yaml-azure.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/machineset-yaml-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/machineset-creating.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="moving-resources-to-infrastructure-machinesets"]
== Moving resources to infrastructure MachineSets

Some of the infrastructure resources are deployed in your cluster by default.
You can move them to the infrastructure MachineSets that you created.

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-router.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-registry.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-monitoring.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-logging.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

Commit message:

Add instructions to isolate compute workload

machine_management/creating-infrastructure-machinesets.adoc, after:

[id="creating-infrastructure-machinesets"]
= Creating infrastructure MachineSets
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: creating-infrastructure-machinesets

toc::[]

You can create a MachineSet to host only infrastructure components.
You apply specific Kubernetes labels to these Machines and then
update the infrastructure components to run on only those Machines. These
infrastructure nodes are not counted toward the total number of subscriptions
that are required to run the environment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Unlike earlier versions of {product-title}, you cannot move the infrastructure
components to the master Machines. To move the components, you must create a
new MachineSet.
====

include::modules/infrastructure-components.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="creating-infrastructure-machinesets-production"]
== Creating infrastructure and compute MachineSets for production environments

In a production deployment, deploy at least three MachineSets to hold
infrastructure components. Both the logging aggregation solution and
the service mesh deploy Elasticsearch, and Elasticsearch requires three
instances that are installed on different nodes. For high availability, install
deploy these nodes to different availability zones. Since you need different
MachineSets for each availability zone, create at least three MachineSets with
role "infra".

Compute nodes are required to isolate workload that should not use the
infrastructure nodes becaus the default worker machinesets do not produce node
labels required to select the default worker nodes. Create compute MachineSets
for each availability zone and then disable the default worker machinesets by
scaling them to zero.

[id="creating-infrastructure-machinesets-clouds"]
=== Creating MachineSets for different clouds

Use the sample MachineSet for your cloud.

include::modules/machineset-yaml-aws.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/machineset-yaml-azure.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/machineset-yaml-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

include::modules/machineset-creating.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/machineset-disabling-default.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="moving-resources-to-infrastructure-machinesets"]
== Moving resources to infrastructure MachineSets

Some of the infrastructure resources are deployed in your cluster by default.
You can move them to the infrastructure MachineSets that you created.

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-router.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-registry.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-monitoring.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/infrastructure-moving-logging.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="isolating-compute-workload"]
== Isolating Compute Workload

OpenShift MachineSets will produce nodes that are labeled as
`node-role.kubernetes.io/worker` even if this is not configured on within
the MachineSet. In order to separate infrastructure workload from compute
workload additional MachineSets are required and the default node selector
must be configured for the scheduler.

include::modules/infrastructure-isolating-compute.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
