security/compliance_operator/co-management/compliance-operator-installation.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="compliance-operator-installation"]
= Installing the Compliance Operator
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: compliance-operator-installation

toc::[]

Before you can use the Compliance Operator, you must ensure it is deployed in the cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The Compliance Operator might report incorrect results on managed platforms, such as OpenShift Dedicated, Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS, and Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6983418[Red Hat Knowledgebase Solution #6983418].
====

include::modules/compliance-operator-console-installation.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
If the `restricted` Security Context Constraints (SCC) have been modified to contain the `system:authenticated` group or has added `requiredDropCapabilities`, the Compliance Operator may not function properly due to permissions issues.

You can create a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator scanner pod service account. For more information, see xref:../../../security/compliance_operator/co-scans/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-custom-scc_compliance-advanced[Creating a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator].
====

include::modules/compliance-operator-cli-installation.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
If the `restricted` Security Context Constraints (SCC) have been modified to contain the `system:authenticated` group or has added `requiredDropCapabilities`, the Compliance Operator may not function properly due to permissions issues.

You can create a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator scanner pod service account. For more information, see xref:../../../security/compliance_operator/co-scans/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-custom-scc_compliance-advanced[Creating a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator].
====

// only applies to 4.11+
include::modules/compliance-operator-hcp-install.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

// 4.13+
* xref:../../../hosted_control_planes/index.adoc#hcp-overview[{hcp-capital} overview]
//
// 4.11-4.12, commenting out of 4.13-main
//* xref:../../../architecture/control-plane.adoc#hosted-control-planes-overview_control-plane[Overview of {hcp} (Technology Preview)]

[id="additional-resources-installing-the-compliance-operator"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* The Compliance Operator is supported in a restricted network environment. For more information, see xref:../../../operators/admin/olm-restricted-networks.adoc#olm-restricted-networks[Using Operator Lifecycle Manager on restricted networks].

Commit message:

CMP-2582: Update CO install documentation to include ROSA support
The next Compliance Operator release (1.5.0) will include ROSA HCP
support.

This commit updates the installation documentation show users how they
can install the operator if they're running ROSA HCP clusters.

security/compliance_operator/co-management/compliance-operator-installation.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="compliance-operator-installation"]
= Installing the Compliance Operator
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: compliance-operator-installation

toc::[]

Before you can use the Compliance Operator, you must ensure it is deployed in the cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The Compliance Operator might report incorrect results on managed platforms, such as OpenShift Dedicated, Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS Classic, and Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift. For more information, see the link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6983418[Red Hat Knowledgebase Solution #6983418].
====

include::modules/compliance-operator-console-installation.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
If the `restricted` Security Context Constraints (SCC) have been modified to contain the `system:authenticated` group or has added `requiredDropCapabilities`, the Compliance Operator may not function properly due to permissions issues.

You can create a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator scanner pod service account. For more information, see xref:../../../security/compliance_operator/co-scans/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-custom-scc_compliance-advanced[Creating a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator].
====

include::modules/compliance-operator-cli-installation.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/compliance-operator-rosa-installation.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[IMPORTANT]
====
If the `restricted` Security Context Constraints (SCC) have been modified to contain the `system:authenticated` group or has added `requiredDropCapabilities`, the Compliance Operator may not function properly due to permissions issues.

You can create a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator scanner pod service account. For more information, see xref:../../../security/compliance_operator/co-scans/compliance-operator-advanced.adoc#compliance-custom-scc_compliance-advanced[Creating a custom SCC for the Compliance Operator].
====

// only applies to 4.11+
include::modules/compliance-operator-hcp-install.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

// 4.13+
* xref:../../../hosted_control_planes/index.adoc#hcp-overview[{hcp-capital} overview]
//
// 4.11-4.12, commenting out of 4.13-main
//* xref:../../../architecture/control-plane.adoc#hosted-control-planes-overview_control-plane[Overview of {hcp} (Technology Preview)]

[id="additional-resources-installing-the-compliance-operator"]
[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources

* The Compliance Operator is supported in a restricted network environment. For more information, see xref:../../../operators/admin/olm-restricted-networks.adoc#olm-restricted-networks[Using Operator Lifecycle Manager on restricted networks].
