nodes/cma/nodes-cma-rn/nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-rn.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
:context: nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-rn
[id="nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-rn"]
= Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator release notes
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]


[role="_abstract"]
You can review the following release notes to learn about changes in the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator version 2.18.1-1. The release notes for the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift describe new features and enhancements, deprecated features, and known issues.

The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator uses the Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler (KEDA) and is built on top of the {product-title} horizontal pod autoscaler (HPA).

[NOTE]
====
The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift is provided as an installable component, with a distinct release cycle from the core {product-title}. The link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#cma[Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy] outlines release compatibility.
====

[id="nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom-rn-versions_{context}"]
== Supported versions

The following table defines the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator versions for each {product-title} version.

[cols="3,7,3",options="header"]
|===
|Version
|{product-title} version
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.20
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.21
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.19
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.18
|General availability


|2.18.1-1
|4.17
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.16
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.15
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.14
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.13
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.12
|General availability
|===

include::modules/nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom-rn-2181.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Commit message:

CMA release notes re-org for migration

nodes/cma/nodes-cma-rn/nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-rn.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
:context: nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-rn
[id="nodes-cma-autoscaling-custom-rn"]
= Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator release notes
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]


[role="_abstract"]
This release of the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator version 2.18.1-1, which addresses Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), was issued on 25 September 2025. You can review the following release notes to learn about changes in this release.
You can review the following release notes to learn about changes in the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator version 2.18.1-1. The release notes for the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift describe new features and enhancements, deprecated features, and known issues.

The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator uses the Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler (KEDA) and is built on top of the {product-title} horizontal pod autoscaler (HPA).

[NOTE]
====
The Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator for Red Hat OpenShift is provided as an installable component, with a distinct release cycle from the core {product-title}. The link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#cma[Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy] outlines release compatibility.
====

Supported versions::

The following table defines the Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator versions for each {product-title} version.
+
[cols="3,7,3",options="header"]
|===
|Version
|{product-title} version
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.20
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.21
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.19
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.18
|General availability


|2.18.1-1
|4.17
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.16
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.15
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.14
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.13
|General availability

|2.18.1-1
|4.12
|General availability
|===

include::modules/nodes-pods-autoscaling-custom-rn-2181.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
